Tao Li, Lei Ma, Zheng Liu, Kaitong Liang,
Economic Granularity Interval in Decision Tree Algorithm Standardization from an Open Innovation Perspective: Towards a Platform for Sustainable Matching,
Journal of Open Innovation: Technology, Market, and Complexity,
Volume 6, Issue 4,
2020,
149,
ISSN 2199-8531,
https://doi.org/10.3390/joitmc6040149.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2199853122011246)
Abstract: ABSTRACT
In the context of the application of artificial intelligence in an intellectual property trading platform, the number of demanders and suppliers that exchange scarce resources is growing continuously. Improvement of computational power promotes matching efficiency significantly. It is necessary to greatly reduce energy consumption in order to realize the machine learning process in terminals and microprocessors in edge computing (smart phones, wearable devices, automobiles, IoT devices, etc.) and reduce the resource burden of data centers. Machine learning algorithms generated in an open community lack standardization in practice, and hence require open innovation participation to reduce computing cost, shorten algorithm running time, and improve human-machine collaborative competitiveness. The purpose of this study was to find an economic range of the granularity in a decision tree, a popular machine learning algorithm. This work addresses the research questions of what the economic tree depth interval is and what the corresponding time cost is with increasing granularity given the number of matches. This study also aimed to balance the efficiency and cost via simulation. Results show that the benefit of decreasing the tree search depth brought by the increased evaluation granularity is not linear, which means that, in a given number of candidate matches, the granularity has a definite and relatively economical range. The selection of specific evaluation granularity in this range can obtain a smaller tree depth and avoid the occurrence of low efficiency, which is the excessive increase in the time cost. Hence, the standardization of an AI algorithm is applicable to edge computing scenarios, such as an intellectual property trading platform. The economic granularity interval can not only save computing resource costs but also save AI decision-making time and avoid human decision-maker time cost.
Keywords: open innovation; AI standardization; edge computing; intellectual property platform

Anastasiia Pika, Arthur H.M. ter Hofstede, Robert K. Perrons, Georg Grossmann, Markus Stumptner, Jim Cooley,
Using Big Data to Improve Safety Performance: An Application of Process Mining to Enhance Data Visualisation,
Big Data Research,
Volume 25,
2021,
100210,
ISSN 2214-5796,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bdr.2021.100210.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214579621000277)
Abstract: The management of health and safety plays an important role in safety performance, and is therefore an important foundational element in an organisation's overall sustainable development. Many organisations are now able to collect vast amounts of data to shed light on the underlying causes behind accidents and safety-related incidents, and to spot patterns that can lead to solutions. Despite these well-intentioned Big Data collection efforts, however, accident statistics in asset-intensive industries remain stubbornly high as the data frequently fails to reveal actionable insights. In this paper, we answer Wang and Wu's (2020) [60], [60] and Wang et al.'s (2019) [61], [61] calls for the application of Big Data science to the safety domain by exploring the potential of applying tools and techniques from process mining, a research area concerned with analysing process execution data, to derive novel insights from and improve the visualisation of safety process data. We demonstrate how these tools can yield useful insights in the occupational health and safety domain by analysing process execution data from a Permit to Work system in an Australian energy company. Specifically, the analysis presented here highlights the underlying complexity of the organisation's Permit to Work process, reveals conformance and performance issues, and uncovers resources associated with conformance issues and changes in the frequency of such issues over time, thereby underlining the need to simplify the system. Encouraged by these fresh perspectives and insights delivered by process mining, we hope that this novel application will be a catalyst for further research at the interface between these research disciplines.
Keywords: Process mining; Industrial safety; Big Data; Permit to Work

Abhishek Sharma, Umesh Kumar Singh,
Modelling of smart risk assessment approach for cloud computing environment using AI & supervised machine learning algorithms,
Global Transitions Proceedings,
Volume 3, Issue 1,
2022,
Pages 243-250,
ISSN 2666-285X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gltp.2022.03.030.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2666285X2200036X)
Abstract: Major backbone of today's competitive and upcoming market is definitely becoming Cloud computing & hence corporate utilize capabilities of cloud computing services. To improve security initiatives by cloud computing service or CRPs, novel types of tools and protocols finds themselves always in demand. In order to build comprehensive risk assessment methodology, extensive literature review was conducted to identify risk factors that may affect cloud computing adoption. In this context various risk factors were identified. After feature selection and identification of risk factors, utilized to select most effective features using linear regression algorithms. Then AI-ML techniques like Decision Tree (DTC), Randomizable Filter Classifier, k-star with RMSE method is used to analyse threats within CC environment. Experimental outcomes depicted that division of dataset to (95%-5%) provided best result out of every remaining partitioning and moreover put forth that DTC algorithm provided best outcomes out of entire data set used in experimental setups.
Keywords: Artificial intelligence; Cloud computing (CC); Cloud security; Machine learning; Risk assessment

Katherine L Christ, Christine V Helliar,
Blockchain technology and modern slavery: Reducing deceptive recruitment in migrant worker populations,
Journal of Business Research,
Volume 131,
2021,
Pages 112-120,
ISSN 0148-2963,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2021.03.065.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0148296321002289)
Abstract: Modern slavery, including forced labour, is a practice that impacts more than 40 million people, 20 million of whom are trapped in corporate supply chains. Migrant workers are disproportionately affected by this practice, who are often from developing countries and are vulnerable to exploitation through deceptive recruitment practices. With questions raised as to the efficacy of social audit and increasing pressure on governments and large businesses to identify and reduce the incidence of modern slavery in corporate activities, new approaches and tools are needed. The purpose of this paper is to offer a conceptual discussion as to how a relatively new technology, the blockchain, might be used to reduce vulnerability and risk in migrant worker populations. Limitations and directions for future research are also considered.
Keywords: Blockchain; Modern slavery; Migrant workers; Forced labour; Deceptive recruitment; Unethical recruitment

David W Chadwick, Wenjun Fan, Gianpiero Costantino, Rogerio de Lemos, Francesco Di Cerbo, Ian Herwono, Mirko Manea, Paolo Mori, Ali Sajjad, Xiao-Si Wang,
A cloud-edge based data security architecture for sharing and analysing cyber threat information,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 102,
2020,
Pages 710-722,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2019.06.026.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X19300895)
Abstract: Cyber-attacks affect every aspect of our lives. These attacks have serious consequences, not only for cyber-security, but also for safety, as the cyber and physical worlds are increasingly linked. Providing effective cyber-security requires cooperation and collaboration among all the entities involved. Increasing the amount of cyber threat information (CTI) available for analysis allows better prediction, prevention and mitigation of cyber-attacks. However, organizations are deterred from sharing their CTI over concerns that sensitive and confidential information may be revealed to others. We address this concern by providing a flexible framework that allows the confidential sharing of CTI for analysis between collaborators. We propose a five-level trust model for a cloud-edge based data sharing infrastructure. The data owner can choose an appropriate trust level and CTI data sanitization approach, ranging from plain text, through anonymization/pseudonymization to homomorphic encryption, in order to manipulate the CTI data prior to sharing it for analysis. Furthermore, this sanitization can be performed by either an edge device or by the cloud service provider, depending upon the level of trust the organization has in the latter. We describe our trust model, our cloud-edge infrastructure, and its deployment model, which are designed to satisfy the broadest range of requirements for confidential CTI data sharing. Finally we briefly describe our implementation and the testing that has been carried out so far by four pilot projects that are validating our infrastructure.
Keywords: Data security architecture; Data outsourcing; Cyber threat information; Edge computing; Cloud-edge trust; Cloud security

Osamah M.M. Al-Matari, Iman M.A. Helal, Sherif A. Mazen, Sherif Elhennawy,
Adopting security maturity model to the organizations’ capability model,
Egyptian Informatics Journal,
Volume 22, Issue 2,
2021,
Pages 193-199,
ISSN 1110-8665,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eij.2020.08.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1110866520301390)
Abstract: Each organization faces threats and risks in daily operations. One of the main risks is how to assess the security level to protect from the increasing risks associated with technology evolution. So, organizations can specify the required approaches and skills. In this paper, we propose a security maturity model that classifies the organizations into five levels. Each level determines the technologies and process capability used by the organizations. There is a set of factors that can help in determining the security maturity level, such as technology, people, and infrastructure. This paper adopts an Information Security Management model to assess organization’s security level. The authors make a correspondence between maturity levels and security levels in an organization. Also, the proposed process capability controls influence both levels. The proposed model helps the organizations bridging the cybersecurity gaps. These gaps relate to talent, technology, organizational units, financial, management and operations gaps. Thus, the model helps the cybersecurity auditors to create a comprehensive plan for measuring the security level of the organization. This plan can manage and develop the organization’s automated countermeasures. Also, it can help in applying the suitable standard and framework based on the organization’s daily operation. Cybersecurity auditors use cybersecurity techniques and tools to assess the organization’s postures. Finally, the authors applied the security maturity controls in two case studies: retirement organization and public telecommunication corporation in the Republic of Yemen.
Keywords: Security maturity; Security controls; Maturity assessments; Capability process; Cybersecurity

Heemeng Ho, Ryan Ko, Lorraine Mazerolle,
Situational Crime Prevention (SCP) techniques to prevent and control cybercrimes: A focused systematic review,
Computers & Security,
Volume 115,
2022,
102611,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2022.102611.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404822000104)
Abstract: Situational Crime Prevention (SCP) is a criminological approach that is shown to reduce crime opportunities drawing from five different strategies comprising 25 techniques. With the global increase in cybercrime, practitioners and researchers are increasingly investigating opportunities for applying SCP strategies and techniques to prevent cyber-focused and cyber-enabled crimes. Recent research proposes ways that SCP can be applied to cybercrime. Yet most of this research utilizes only a few of the SCP techniques and the linkages between the SCP techniques and opportunities for reducing cybercrimes are rarely made explicit. In this paper we evaluate the relevance of the full spectrum of SCP techniques to cybercrime and explicate how computer scientists, cybercrime and cybersecurity researchers and practitioners apply SCP principles to prevent and control cyber-enabled crime. Through a focused systematic review of 352 articles across computer science, criminal justice and criminology literature using the PRISMA method, this paper clarifies terminologies, explores the rise of cybercrimes, and explains the value of SCP for responding to cybercrimes. We provide a review of the current research undertaken to apply SCP to cybercrimes and conclude with a discussion on research gaps and potential future areas of research.
Keywords: Cybercrime; Situational crime prevention; SCP; Criminology; Cyber-focused crime; Cyber-enabled crime

Jayme E. Walters,
More than meets the eye: Organizational capacity of nonprofits in the poor, rural South,
Journal of Rural Studies,
Volume 86,
2021,
Pages 497-507,
ISSN 0743-0167,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jrurstud.2021.07.017.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S074301672100214X)
Abstract: Background
The physical, social, economic, and political contexts in which organizations operate influence their mission and organizational capacity – the available resources nonprofits use to carry out their purpose. The current study examines organizational capacity by uncovering strengthes and challenges of rural human service organizations (HSOs) in rural, persistently poor counties in the South. Also considered is the impact of the environmental context.
Methods
Through a qualitative, multiple case study approach, nine HSOs in Georgia, Kentucky, and Mississippi were studied using semi-structured interviews with high-level administrators and thematic analysis.
Results
HSOs were skilled at enduring change in their communities, problem-solving, worker retention, fundraising, financial accountability processes, and partnership-building. Challenges included formal assessment and evaluation, quantity of communications, staff and volunteer recruitment, and minimal formal planning. The communities involved presented contextual barriers such as racism, limited workers, and transportation.
Conclusions
The present study establishes connections between environmental context and organizational capacity that have been minimally explored. The identification of barriers, strengths, and challenges allows for future research and informs policy and practice that is critical to addressing the systemic problem of underinvestment in rural areas.
Keywords: Nonprofit; Rural; Organizational capacity; South; Human service organizations

Zakiah Zulkefli, Manmeet Mahinderjit Singh,
Sentient-based Access Control model: A mitigation technique for Advanced Persistent Threats in Smartphones,
Journal of Information Security and Applications,
Volume 51,
2020,
102431,
ISSN 2214-2126,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jisa.2019.102431.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214212619300742)
Abstract: This research sheds light on the nature of an advanced persistent threat (APT) on smartphones by analysing real APT attack cases targeting smartphone users. Based on the research, context-aware access control is the best technique to minimise APT instigated by social engineering attacks in smartphones. Therefore, this research proposes an access control model known as sentient-based access control model (SENSATE), which combines role- and attribute-based and multi-level security to maintain information integrity and confidentiality that can be infringed through social engineering attacks. The implementation of existing smartphone sensors in the design of SENSATE is a novel approach in the fight against smartphone cybercrimes, such as APT.
Keywords: Smartphone; Role-centric access control; Social engineering; Advanced persistent threat (APT); Sensor; Context aware

Benyuan Yang,
Enforcement of separation of duty constraints in attribute-based access control,
Computers & Security,
Volume 131,
2023,
103294,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2023.103294.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404823002043)
Abstract: While the verification of separation of duty (SoD) constraints on attribute based access control (ABAC) systems has been defined and examined in existing works, it still remains an open problem since the existing approaches are either inefficient or inadequate to check all SoD constraints; furthermore, the problem of solving SoD violations has not yet been addressed in the literature. In this paper, we present an integer linear programming (ILP) based approach to check the satisfiability of all SoD constraints. It can be applied to different SoDs. Hence, it is feasible in real-world scenarios. Moreover, we present an ILP based violation solution that can correct all SoD violations with a minimum number of restrictions regarding users’ normal operations on target objects. All SoD violations can be solved in a once-and-done way while simultaneously guaranteeing the satisfaction of all SoD constraints.
Keywords: Attribute based access control; Separation of duty; Verification; Enforcement; Integer linear programming

Shaffee Mayoof, Hasan Alaswad, Sameer Aljeshi, Ahmed Tarafa, Wael Elmedany,
A hybrid circuits-cloud: Development of a low-cost secure cloud-based collaborative platform for A/D circuits in virtual hardware E-lab,
Ain Shams Engineering Journal,
Volume 12, Issue 2,
2021,
Pages 1197-1209,
ISSN 2090-4479,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asej.2020.09.012.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2090447920302070)
Abstract: The development and use of cloud based tools in virtual learning has been increasing in recent years. Electronic Design Automation (EDA) or Electronic Computer-Aided Design (ECAD) is one of the most important tools that are used for electronic circuit design and simulation. There is a number of available cloud based EDA tools that are used in industry and educational institutions. This paper introduces a hybrid-circuits cloud-based platform that enables students to design, simulate, and model both analog and digital electronic systems. Circuits-cloud became one of the top best electronic circuit cloud tools, it is ranked as number one in Google search for the “top list of electronic circuit cloud tools”. It integrates the Internet of Things (IoT) and cloud based tools by adding sensors, actuators, and interact with the physical design in the laboratory in the real time. This platform acts as a comprehensive laboratory device to capture components, draw circuits, integrate different components, apply different inputs, simulate, measure, and detect any defect or heated elements. This cloud-based platform introduces an integrated environment for digital, analog and IoT modeling. The platform has a laboratory device that can be integrated into circuits level with the cloud system to test the physical circuits in real-time remotely. This enables in-browser cloud platform for schematic capture, circuit simulation, and emulation. As a testimony of the platform of the modeling and simulation discipline, a list of about 100 types of equipment?s were included and tested. The cloud service is provided by Amazon Web Services (AWS) with high data protection service, AWS also provides encryption, key management, and threat detection that continuously monitors and protects user accounts and workloads. It is estimated to be able to serve approximately 2000 active students and tutors on a monthly average. This platform can be used in distance and blended learning as well.
Keywords: Circuits-cloud; Electronic design automation; Circuit simulation; Analog and digital circuits

Nuray Baltaci Akhuseyinoglu, James Joshi,
A constraint and risk-aware approach to attribute-based access control for cyber-physical systems,
Computers & Security,
Volume 96,
2020,
101802,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2020.101802.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404820300869)
Abstract: Cyber-physical systems (CPSs) integrate cyber components and physical processes. This integration enhances the capabilities of physical systems by incorporating intelligence into objects and services. On the other hand, the integration of cyber and physical components and the interaction between them introduce new security threats. Since CPSs are mostly safety-critical systems, data stored and communicated in them are highly critical. Hence, there is a crucial need for protecting the data and resources in CPSs against unauthorized accesses. In this paper, we propose an access control (AC) framework to address CPS related security issues. The proposed framework consists of two parts: a Cyber-Physical Access Control model (CPAC) and a Generalized Action Generation Model (GAGM). CPAC utilizes an attribute-based approach and extends it with cyber-physical components and cyber-physical interactions. In addition, we incorporate Separation of Duty (SoD) constraints into the CPAC model. GAGM is used to augment the enforcement of access policies. We present formal representations of CPAC and GAGM and demonstrate their use in a sample scenario for a medical CPS. We propose an algorithm for enforcing authorization policies. We implement the CPAC model and compare its performance against the core attribute-based access control model. We present an authorization enforcement approach and show through our experimental results its feasibility.
Keywords: Attribute-based access control; Cyber-physical systems; Action generation; Risk; Separation of duties

Daniel J. Finch, Brook I. Martin, Patricia D. Franklin, Laurence S. Magder, Vincent D. Pellegrini,
Patient-Reported Outcomes Following Total Hip Arthroplasty: A Multicenter Comparison Based on Surgical Approaches,
The Journal of Arthroplasty,
Volume 35, Issue 4,
2020,
Pages 1029-1035.e3,
ISSN 0883-5403,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arth.2019.10.017.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0883540319309751)
Abstract: Background
Comparisons of patient-reported outcomes (PROs) based on surgical approach for total hip arthroplasty (THA) in the United States are limited to series from single surgeons or institutions. Using prospective data from a large, multicenter study, we compare preoperative to postoperative changes in PROs between posterior, transgluteal, and anterior surgical approaches to THA.
Methods
Patient-reported function, global health, and pain were systematically collected preoperatively and at 1, 3, and 6 months postoperatively from patients undergoing primary THA at 26 sites participating in the Comparative Effectiveness of Pulmonary Embolism Prevention After Hip and Knee Replacement (ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT02810704). Outcomes consisted of the brief Hip disability and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score, the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System Physical Health score, and the Numeric Pain Rating Scale. Operative approaches were grouped by surgical plane relative to the abductor musculature as being either anterior, transgluteal, or posterior.
Results
Between 12/12/2016 and 08/31/2019, outcomes from 3018 eligible participants were examined. At 1 month, the transgluteal cohort had a 2.2-point lower improvement in Hip disability and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score (95% confidence interval, 0.40-4.06; P = .017) and a 1.3-point lower improvement in Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System Physical Health score (95% confidence interval, 0.48-2.04; P = .002) compared to posterior approaches. There was no significant difference in improvement between anterior and posterior approaches. At 3 and 6 months, no clinically significant differences in PRO improvement were observed between groups.
Conclusion
PROs 6 months following THA dramatically improved regardless of the plane of surgical approach, suggesting that choice of surgical approach can be left to the discretion of surgeons and patients without fear of differential early outcomes.
Keywords: hip arthroplasty; patient-reported outcomes; transgluteal; posterior; anterior; HOOS

Wattana Viriyasitavat, Zhuming Bi,
Service selection and workflow composition in modern business processes,
Journal of Industrial Information Integration,
Volume 17,
2020,
100126,
ISSN 2452-414X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jii.2020.100126.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2452414X20300029)
Abstract: Enterprises heavily rely on the state-of-the-art information technologies user behaviors and social system to sustain business competitiveness. Service-Oriented Architecture (SoA) and Cloud allow enterprises to utilize dynamic distributed services across enterprise boundaries and even individuals. Based on the needs of society, enterprise can spin off a virtual enterprise for new businesses where the demanded manufacturing resources are obtained through service selection and workflow composition over the Internet. An increasing number of Internet of Things (IoT) services make enterprises facing the challenge to select preferable services for their business workflows. We improve workflow compositions methods at three major aspects: (1) we present an integrated approach for service selection and composition to meet the needs of users and social system. (2) We extend Service Workflow Specification (SWSpec) as a formal requirement specification to determine a design space of services. (3) We introduce the Fuzzy Analytic Hierarchy Process (F-AHP) to evaluate non-functional specifications quantitatively with less uncertainty. Appropriate rankings can be assigned to available services based on non-functional requirements to determine the best-suited services with less uncertainty.
Keywords: Service-oriented Architecture (SoA); Service Workflow; Fuzzy Analytic Hierarchy Process (FAHP); Multi-Criteria Decision Making (MCDM); Specification Language; Service Selection; Service composition; Internet of Things (IoT); Social system; Quality of Service (QoS)

Olivia H. Plant, Jos van Hillegersberg, Adina Aldea,
Rethinking IT governance: Designing a framework for mitigating risk and fostering internal control in a DevOps environment,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 45,
2022,
100560,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2022.100560.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089522000124)
Abstract: An increasing amount of companies is transforming their IT departments towards cross-functional teams which are responsible for both development and operation of software and use automation to speed up their delivery process. This novel approach, which is commonly known as “DevOps”, promises many benefits such as increased speed and frequency of deployment. However, companies using DevOps are often struggling with demonstrating control of their software delivery processes to IT auditing parties, due to the decentralized decision-making structures and high degree of automation in DevOps teams. The research at hand presents a framework which aims to provide guidance to organizations in mitigating and governing risks in IT teams and departments that make use of the DevOps paradigm. We have adopted a design science research approach, building on a literature review and semi-structured interviews with seventeen employees from nine Dutch companies that are in different stages of their DevOps transition. The results suggest that two main factors which influence how departments design their DevOps environment are risk appetite and the DevOps maturity. We furthermore find that companies in practice often use a mixture of traditional, manual IT controls and the automated controls suggested in literature. Based on these insights, a situational control framework is designed which suggests suitable risk mitigation practices.
Keywords: DevOps; Risk management; Internal control; IT audit; Agile

J. Christopher Westland,
The information content of Sarbanes-Oxley in predicting security breaches,
Computers & Security,
Volume 90,
2020,
101687,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2019.101687.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404818302128)
Abstract: How effective is compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) in identifying and eliminating firm threats from information systems breaches? We investigated publicly reported security breaches of internal controls in corporate systems to determine whether SOX assessments are information bearing with respect to breaches which can lead to materially significant losses and misstatements. The results of our tests varied significantly between breach types. SOX Section 404 adverse decisions on effectiveness of controls occurred in 100% of credit card data breaches and around 33% of insider breaches. SOX 404 audits provided a contrarian “effective” control decision on 88% of situations where there was a control breach concerning a portable device. This suggests that employees are subverting particularly strict internal controls by using portable devices that can be carried outside the physical boundaries of the firm. We found that management and SOX 404 auditors do not general agree on the underlying internal control situation at any time. Instead the SOX 404 auditors were likely to discover material weaknesses and “educate” management and internal audit teams about the importance of these control weaknesses. SOX attestations were poor at identifying control weaknesses from unintended disclosures, physical losses, hacking and malware, stationary devices, and situations where the cause of the breach was unknown. Hazard and occupancy structural models were constructed to extrapolate to a larger population. Results showed that both SOX 302 and 404 audits provided information germane to the frequency of breaches, with SOX 404 being three times as informative as section 302 reports. The hazard model found an expected 2.88% reduction in breaches when SOX 302 controls were effective. Management's “material weakness’ attestations provided no information in this structural model, whereas there would be around a 1% increase in breach occurrence when there exist significant deficiencies. SOX 404 attestations were the most informative; a negative SOX 404 attestation is projected to increase the frequency of breaches by around 8.5%. We concluded that the strength of internal controls attested in SOX reports is likely to be a significant factor in the occurrence of a security breach in a specific period.
Keywords: Sarbanes-Oxley; Security breaches; Internal control; Auditing; Computer security; Information systems breaches; Computer fraud; Privacy breach

Khaled Riad, Jieren Cheng,
Adaptive XACML access policies for heterogeneous distributed IoT environments,
Information Sciences,
Volume 548,
2021,
Pages 135-152,
ISSN 0020-0255,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2020.09.051.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025520309634)
Abstract: This paper addresses the access control issue for the comprehensive and distributed Internet of Things (IoT) environments. The typical eXtensible Access Control Markup Language (XACML) which implements the sophisticated access conditions in XML files, is widely used to guarantee access control decisions for the distributed IoT environments. To the best of our knowledge, the typical XACML-based access control schemes never consider the authentication run-time parameters. Moreover, the access control schemes that are mainly based on the typical XACML cannot secure themselves against some kinds of attacks, such as the Masquerade attack. Also, those schemes are not secure in opposition to Man-in-the-Middle (MITM) attack. Therefore, this paper proposes an adaptive XACML scheme that extends the typical XACML by integrating an access code generation and verification schemes for heterogeneous distributed IoT environments. Our adaptive XACML scheme considers some sensitive authentication run-time parameters before authorizing the user. Moreover, our scheme is proven secure against the Masquerade attack and MITM attack through hashing the generated access code using Message Digest Algorithm-5 (MD5) and Secure Hash Algorithm-1 (SHA-1) Checksum Utility. The experimental analysis of many different configurations supports the efficacy and efficiency of our adaptive XACML. It also shows exceptional compatibility and performance with different implementations. The processing time comparison between our adaptive XACML and Typical XACML, has shown that there is a low time overhead when using our adaptive XACML. This processing time overhead is nothing compared to the extra features that have been achieved in excess of the typical XACML and the security against Masquerade and MITM attacks. Therefore, our adaptive XACML scheme has the capability to be applied in various distinct distributed environments not only IoT.
Keywords: Access Control; Access Policies; Heterogeneous Environments; Internet-of-Things; XACML

Kristof Böhmer, Stefanie Rinderle-Ma,
Mining association rules for anomaly detection in dynamic process runtime behavior and explaining the root cause to users,
Information Systems,
Volume 90,
2020,
101438,
ISSN 0306-4379,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2019.101438.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306437919304909)
Abstract: Detecting anomalies in process runtime behavior is crucial: they might reflect, on the one side, security breaches and fraudulent behavior and on the other side desired deviations due to, for example, exceptional conditions. Both scenarios yield valuable insights for process analysts and owners, but happen due to different reasons and require a different treatment. Hence a distinction into malign and benign anomalies is required. Existing anomaly detection approaches typically fall short in supporting experts when in need to take this decision. An additional problem are false positives which could result in selecting incorrect countermeasures. This paper proposes a novel anomaly detection approach based on association rule mining. It fosters the explanation of anomalies and the estimation of their severity. In addition, the approach is able to deal with process change and flexible executions which potentially lead to false positives. This facilitates to take the appropriate countermeasure for a malign anomaly and to avoid the possible termination of benign process executions. The feasibility and result quality of the approach are shown by a prototypical implementation and by analyzing real life logs with injected artificial anomalies. The explanatory power of the presented approach is evaluated through a controlled experiment with users.
Keywords: Anomaly detection; Process runtime behavior; Root cause; Association rule mining; Process change

Samudaya Nanayakkara, M.N.N. Rodrigo, Srinath Perera, G.T. Weerasuriya, Amer A. Hijazi,
A methodology for selection of a Blockchain platform to develop an enterprise system,
Journal of Industrial Information Integration,
Volume 23,
2021,
100215,
ISSN 2452-414X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jii.2021.100215.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2452414X21000169)
Abstract: Blockchain technology was introduced more than a decade ago, and it has already begun to disrupt traditional business processes. After the recognition gained by Blockchain 1.0 for cryptocurrency transactions and Blockchain 2.0 for financial applications, there is a high demand for Blockchain 3.0, which focuses on using blockchain for various applications in industries other than finance. There are a plethora of permissioned and permissionless blockchain platforms that are available in the industry, and some could be used to develop an enterprise system. As a result, selection of a suitable blockchain platform to develop an enterprise system has become extremely difficult. This paper introduces a methodology for selection of a suitable blockchain platform for resolving industry or enterprise issues where blockchain provides a plausible solution. The methodology comprised of four stages; identification, selection, evaluation and validation. Initially, the available blockchain platforms are identified, followed by selecting a suitable blockchain platform using a multi-criteria decision-making method such as Simple Multi Attribute Rating Technique (SMART). Subsequently, the selected system is evaluated in detail considering the system architecture, libraries, tools, domain-specific applications and capability analysis of the selected blockchain platform. The proposed methodology has been validated through developing a blockchain-based enterprise solution. The process protocol introduced in this study could be used by any stakeholder to select a suitable blockchain platform to develop a blockchain application despite its scale.
Keywords: Blockchain platforms; Enterprise system development; Hyperledger Fabric; Methodology; Selection; Simple Multi Attribute Rating Technique (SMART)

Rita Murri, Carlotta Masciocchi, Jacopo Lenkowicz, Massimo Fantoni, Andrea Damiani, Antonio Marchetti, Paolo Domenico Angelo Sergi, Giovanni Arcuri, Alfredo Cesario, Stefano Patarnello, Massimo Antonelli, Rocco Bellantone, Roberto Bernabei, Stefania Boccia, Paolo Calabresi, Andrea Cambieri, Roberto Cauda, Cesare Colosimo, Filippo Crea, Ruggero De Maria, Valerio De Stefano, Francesco Franceschi, Antonio Gasbarrini, Raffaele Landolfi, Ornella Parolini, Luca Richeldi, Maurizio Sanguinetti, Andrea Urbani, Maurizio Zega, Giovanni Scambia, Vincenzo Valentini,
A real-time integrated framework to support clinical decision making for covid-19 patients,
Computer Methods and Programs in Biomedicine,
Volume 217,
2022,
106655,
ISSN 0169-2607,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cmpb.2022.106655.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169260722000402)
Abstract: Background
The COVID-19 pandemic affected healthcare systems worldwide. Predictive models developed by Artificial Intelligence (AI) and based on timely, centralized and standardized real world patient data could improve management of COVID-19 to achieve better clinical outcomes. The objectives of this manuscript are to describe the structure and technologies used to construct a COVID-19 Data Mart architecture and to present how a large hospital has tackled the challenge of supporting daily management of COVID-19 pandemic emergency, by creating a strong retrospective knowledge base, a real time environment and integrated information dashboard for daily practice and early identification of critical condition at patient level. This framework is also used as an informative, continuously enriched data lake, which is a base for several on-going predictive studies.
Methods
The information technology framework for clinical practice and research was described. It was developed using SAS Institute software analytics tool and SAS® Vyia® environment and Open-Source environment R ® and Python ® for fast prototyping and modeling. The included variables and the source extraction procedures were presented.
Results
The Data Mart covers a retrospective cohort of 5528 patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection. People who died were older, had more comorbidities, reported more frequently dyspnea at onset, had higher d-dimer, C-reactive protein and urea nitrogen. The dashboard was developed to support the management of COVID-19 patients at three levels: hospital, single ward and individual care level.
Interpretation
The COVID-19 Data Mart based on integration of a large collection of clinical data and an AI-based integrated framework has been developed, based on a set of automated procedures for data mining and retrieval, transformation and integration, and has been embedded in the clinical practice to help managing daily care. Benefits from the availability of a Data Mart include the opportunity to build predictive models with a machine learning approach to identify undescribed clinical phenotypes and to foster hospital networks. A real-time updated dashboard built from the Data Mart may represent a valid tool for a better knowledge of epidemiological and clinical features of COVID-19, especially when multiple waves are observed, as well as for epidemic and pandemic events of the same nature (e. g. with critical clinical conditions leading to severe pulmonary inflammation). Therefore, we believe the approach presented in this paper may find several applications in comparable situations even at region or state levels. Finally, models predicting the course of future waves or new pandemics could largely benefit from network of DataMarts.

J. Efrim Boritz, Louise Hayes, Lev M. Timoshenko,
How understandable are SOX 404 auditors reports?,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 39,
2020,
100486,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2020.100486.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089520300543)
Abstract: This study experimentally examines potential non-professional investors’ understanding of a random sample of SOX 404 reports containing both IT weaknesses (ITWs) and non-IT weaknesses (non-ITWs) as reflected in their internal control weakness (ICW) severity ratings and their accuracy in identifying the reported ICWs. We find that the number of perceived non-ITWs and report length are positively associated with potential investors’ ICW severity ratings and that failing to perceive non-ITWs reduces potential investors’ ratings of weakness severity. However, the number of perceived ITWs is not associated with potential non-professional investors’ ratings of the overall severity of ICWs. Potential investors’ errors in identifying both non-ITWs and ITWs are associated with the number of non-ITWs and ITWs reported. Also, errors are positively associated with lower readability of SOX 404 reports. We identify specific types of ITWs and non-ITWs that contribute the most to the total number of errors made by non-professional investors in perceiving ICWs.
Keywords: SOX 404 reports; Readability; Understandability; Internal control weaknesses

Pierluigi Zerbino, Alessandro Stefanini, Davide Aloini,
Process Science in Action: A Literature Review on Process Mining in Business Management,
Technological Forecasting and Social Change,
Volume 172,
2021,
121021,
ISSN 0040-1625,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2021.121021.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0040162521004534)
Abstract: Process Mining is a new kind of Business Analytics and has emerged as a powerful family of Process Science techniques for analysing and improving business processes. Although Process Mining has managerial benefits, such as better decision making, the scientific literature has investigated it mainly from a computer science standpoint and appears to have overlooked various possible applications. We reviewed management-orientated literature on Process Mining and Business Management to assess the state of the art and to pave the way for further research. We built a seven-dimension framework to develop and guide the review. We selected and analysed 145 papers and identified eleven research gaps sorted into four categories. Our findings were formalised in a structured research agenda suggesting twenty-five research questions. We believe that these questions may stimulate the application of Process Mining in promising, albeit little explored, business contexts and in mostly unaddressed managerial areas.
Keywords: Process mining; Business intelligence and analytics; Business process management; Industry 4.0; Machine learning; Data science

Joon Bae Suh, Hee Sub Shim,
The effect of ethical corporate culture on anti-fraud strategies in South Korean financial companies: Mediation of whistleblowing and a sectoral comparison approach in depository institutions,
International Journal of Law, Crime and Justice,
Volume 60,
2020,
100361,
ISSN 1756-0616,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijlcj.2019.100361.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1756061619300096)
Abstract: Internal fraud in financial companies can have a devastating effect on the economy, once demonstrated in the Savings and Loan Crisis in the US, and the Savings Bank Scandal in Korea. Using path analysis methods, this study attempts to explore direct and indirect pathways among three respective dimensions of ethical culture, whistleblowing policy, and overall evaluation of anti-fraud strategies in two financial sectors in South Korea (i.e., commercial bank vs. small and medium sized depository institutions). The study finds that more vibrant and proactive managerial efforts, such as setting an ‘ethical tone at the top’ and implementing an effective ‘ethics training’ are necessary to develop a whistleblowing policy in an organization, which in return, positively affect the employees' perceived corporate anti-fraud strategies. This finding, in particular, can be beneficial for small and medium sized depository institutions, which require more cost-effective measures to have a competitive edge in financial markets.
Keywords: Ethical corporate culture; Financial institution fraud; Whistleblowing; Anti-Fraud strategies; Tone at the top; Ethics training

Yongbo Ge, Yuexiao Zhu,
Boosting green recovery: Green credit policy in heavily polluted industries and stock price crash risk,
Resources Policy,
Volume 79,
2022,
103058,
ISSN 0301-4207,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.resourpol.2022.103058.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0301420722005013)
Abstract: With increasing resource consumption and waste, green financing has become an important means to achieve green recovery. The purpose of this paper is to investigate the effect of green financing on behavioral decision-making in heavily polluted industries that rely on natural resources. Using Green Credit Guidelines as a shock, this paper constructs a DID model and finds that green finance policy reduces the future crash risk of heavily polluting listed firms. This association is more pronounced in firms with weaker internal controls, lower audit quality, and a higher level of marketization. Further analyses show that information transparency and information efficiency are crucial economic channels. The findings of this paper are conducive to green recovery and transformation of the energy industry, thus saving resources.
Keywords: Green finance; Green recovery; Stock price crash risk; Resources

Nafis Alam, Jayalakshmy Ramachandran, Aisha Homy Nahomy,
The impact of corporate governance and agency effect on earnings management – A test of the dual banking system,
Research in International Business and Finance,
Volume 54,
2020,
101242,
ISSN 0275-5319,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ribaf.2020.101242.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S027553191930707X)
Abstract: This study investigates the impact of the Board characteristics, Chief Executive Officer’s (CEO) power and Shariah supervision on Earnings Management (EM) within conventional and Islamic banks. We provide evidence that EM levels do not significantly differ between Islamic and conventional banks. Contrary to public belief, additional value-based attributes such as the Shariah Supervisory Board (SSB) that promotes ethical and religious values, do not help in the restriction of opportunistic behaviour in Islamic banks. Additionally, attributes such as board size, firm size and leverage have a significant negative influence on EM of both Islamic and conventional banks. Our results are important in deliberating that the word ‘Islamic’ must not be used merely as a profit manifestation, but instead must promote a value-based business, which in turn could ensure reliability and sustainability.
Keywords: Corporate governance; Agency cost; Islamic financial institutions; Sharia; Supervisory board; Earnings management

Yuri T. Jadotte, Rosemary M. Caron, Gregory D. Kearney,
Ecosystemic Theory, Practice, and Policy: Training Recommendations for Environmental Public Health,
American Journal of Preventive Medicine,
Volume 62, Issue 1,
2022,
Pages 135-144,
ISSN 0749-3797,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.amepre.2021.09.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0749379721005110)
Abstract: The readiness of the public health workforce to deliver the essential public health services is benchmarked against training competencies. Consequently, it is expected that the establishment of the Council on Education in Public Health competencies will continue to drive the agenda of the learning continuum, from education to practice. However, the absence of environmental health as a listed competency in the Council on Education in Public Health accreditation criteria weakens the core public health program structure originally outlined by the National Academy of Medicine (formerly known as the Institute of Medicine) and could further dissolve environmental health content from schools and programs of public health. The authors have examined the literature on environmental health and public health education, and propose 3 overarching perspectives to employ from a theory, practice, and policy viewpoint to address this disconnect as follows:1.adopting a pedagogic theoretical model that integrates both social and environmental determinants of health as inseparable components of public health;2.revisiting historical examples of public health practice failures and successes related to environmental determinants of health as cautionary tales to avoid and exemplars to follow, respectively; and3.pursuing ecosystemic policy changes to redress the inadequacy of environmental health education in public health workforce training. The current environmental health competency gap weakens the public health workforce infrastructure by creating graduates without the necessary science-based skills to protect communities from environmental threats. This departure from environmental health devalues the profession of public health and prohibits populations from reaching their full health potential. Practitioners, educators, and the public need to play a role in transforming siloes in environmental public health theory, practice, and policy into coherent learning ecosystems on which current and future populations can confidently depend.

Ping Ouyang, Yi-Peng Xu, Lu-Yu Qi, Si-Ming Xing, Hadi Fooladi,
Comprehensive evaluation of flat plate and parabolic dish solar collectors’ performance using different operating fluids and MWCNT nanofluid in different climatic conditions,
Energy Reports,
Volume 7,
2021,
Pages 2436-2451,
ISSN 2352-4847,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.egyr.2021.04.046.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352484721002626)
Abstract: The use of fossil fuels leads to depletion of fuel reserves and environmental pollution. One way to achieve a sustainable future in urban areas and remote communities is to use the independent renewable energy systems. Meanwhile, solar energy is one of the most common sources of energy generation that has attracted of the world. The present study provides the comprehensive examine the performance of two parabolic dish collector and flat-plate collector from energy, exergy, Enviroeconomic and Exergoenviroeconomic view of points. To examine the performance of solar systems, the climatic conditions of two different cities in Asia (Beijing and Tehran) have been used. In addition, the performance of the systems is investigated under different parameters and using different working fluids and MWCNT nanoparticle. It was found that the both solar systems have better overall performance in Tehran than in Beijing. Moreover, in the months when the solar collector has lower exergy efficiency, its use in Tehran compared to that Beijing has a better exergy performance than other months. In addition, the lowest and highest Levelized Cost of Energy are belong to dish collector (in Tehran with water) and flat plate collector (in Beijing with Dowtherm Q), respectively. For Tehran, LCOE of dish collector increases more than 5.5-fold when using water/MWCNT nanofluid instead of water.
Keywords: Flat plate collector; Parabolic dish collector; Water and Dowtherm Q; MWCNT nanoparticle; Enviroeconomic and exergoenviroeconomic

Thau Soon Khoo, Babrdel Bonab Mohammad,
The parallelization of a two-phase distributed hybrid ruin-and-recreate genetic algorithm for solving multi-objective vehicle routing problem with time windows,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 168,
2021,
114408,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2020.114408.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417420310770)
Abstract: Solving multi-objective vehicle routing problem with time windows (MOVRPTW) involves satisfying two or more objectives. However, not many algorithms can achieve a broader set of Pareto optimal front and consistent solutions that have the least difference in magnitude. Therefore, it is rewarding to develop a coveted algorithm that solves these shortcomings. In this paper, we propose the parallelization of a two-phase distributed hybrid ruin-and-recreate genetic algorithm (HRRGA). The algorithms in HRRGA run in either the HRRGA and the hybrid ruin-and-recreate (HRR) phase or the HRR phase. In HRRGA phase, different HRR strategies are used with the hybrid genetic algorithm (HGA) in the near-optimal solution computation. However, in the HRR phase, only the HRR strategies are used. The algorithms in HRRGA are executed in parallel and harness its power of exploitation and exploration. These strategy combinations improve the diversity of the Pareto optimal front while delivering the generated solutions with the least difference in magnitude. Our experiment with Solomon’s benchmark set shows that HRRGA has superior results compared to the recently published hybrid algorithm, has diverse set of Pareto optimal fronts, and achieves several novel Pareto optimal fronts compared to the best-known solutions.
Keywords: Genetic algorithm; Ruin-and-recreate; Combinatorial optimization; Objective function; Vehicle routing problem with time windows

Meng Lyu, Xiaojie Christine Sun, Bing Wang,
Does CFO vertical duality affect financial outcomes? Evidence from the CFO acting as the head of accounting,
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation,
Volume 49,
2022,
100504,
ISSN 1061-9518,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.intaccaudtax.2022.100504.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1061951822000593)
Abstract: Using a sample of Chinese firms from 2008 to 2016, this paper examines whether a firm’s chief financial officer (CFO) simultaneously being the head of the accounting department (CFO vertical duality) influences financial outcomes, including financial reporting quality and financial management efficiency. We find that, on average, this vertical duality does not affect financial reporting quality. However, a negative effect on financial reporting quality emerges when the CFO encounters specific incentives or opportunities to misreport. Moreover, CFO vertical duality distracts the CFOs, especially in complex firms, and adversely impacts the CFOs’ broader role in financial management, such as cash management and corporate financing. Overall, our results highlight that the position arrangement in the financial system is an important but relatively neglected determinant of financial outcomes.
Keywords: CFO vertical duality; Head of accounting; Financial reporting quality; Financial management efficiency; China

Orlenys López-Pintado, Marlon Dumas, Luciano García-Bañuelos, Ingo Weber,
Controlled flexibility in blockchain-based collaborative business processes,
Information Systems,
Volume 104,
2022,
101622,
ISSN 0306-4379,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2020.101622.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306437920300946)
Abstract: Blockchain technology enables the execution of collaborative business processes involving mutually untrusted parties. Existing tools allow such processes to be modeled using high-level notations and compiled into smart contracts that can be deployed on blockchain platforms. However, these tools do not provide mechanisms to cope with the flexibility requirements inherent to open and dynamic collaboration environments. In particular, existing tools adopt a static role binding approach wherein roles are bound to actors upfront when a process instance is created. Also, these tools do not allow participants to collectively make choices regarding alternative sub-processes or branches in the process model, at runtime. This paper presents a model for dynamic binding of actors to roles in collaborative processes and an associated binding policy specification language. The proposed language is endowed with a Petri net semantics, thus enabling policy consistency verification. Furthermore, the paper introduces a model for consensus-based control-flow flexibility, wherein participants in a process can collectively agree on how to steer the business process within the boundaries defined by control-flow agreement policies. The paper also outlines an approach to compile policy specifications into smart contracts for enforcement. An experimental evaluation shows that the cost of policy enforcement increases linearly with the number of roles, control-flow elements, and policy constraints.
Keywords: Collaborative business process; Blockchain; Flexibility

Umar Mukhtar Ismail, Shareeful Islam,
A unified framework for cloud security transparency and audit,
Journal of Information Security and Applications,
Volume 54,
2020,
102594,
ISSN 2214-2126,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jisa.2020.102594.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214212620307626)
Abstract: The paradigm of cloud computing has elevated IT to new heights by offering the elasticity to match customer needs, while also reducing capital expenditure on procuring IT infrastructure. Despite the apparent benefits provided by cloud computing, organisations are slow in embracing the technology due to numerous issues that are associated with the lack of security transparency such as trust and accountability. Several contributions have been proposed to address these issues. However, most of the contributions have not provided a definite method by which security transparency can be achieved based on user requirements, and particularly, by probing or auditing cloud service providers. In this paper, we propose a framework for addressing a pressing challenge of cloud security transparency. Our approach includes a process and a supporting auditing tool for vetting cloud service providers and enabling security transparency based on predefined user requirements. The paper builds on our previous work on security transparency framework by incorporating an implementation process. In addition, we have developed a Security Transparency and Audit Tool through which users can collect and analyze evidence from cloud service providers for determining conformity to requirements, as well as for the specification of remedial actions. The tool is designed to be a supplementary component of the proposed framework that enables continuous probing and vetting of cloud provider meets user requirements, thereby enhancing security transparency. The work is novel in its approach because it consolidates various elements to provide a simplified method for organizations to attain security transparency. We also believe that the contributions are significant towards solving the issues and challenges of cloud security transparency in general.
Keywords: Security audit; Cloud security transparency; Cloud audit; Security requirements

Ray A. Wickenheiser,
Proactive crime scene response optimizes crime investigation,
Forensic Science International: Synergy,
Volume 6,
2023,
100325,
ISSN 2589-871X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fsisyn.2023.100325.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2589871X23000128)
Abstract: The Proactive Crime Scene Response is a technique utilizing targeted forensic analytical results to guide criminal investigations in real time. Analytical value of evidence maximized by forensic laboratories is directly related to the recognition, documentation, collection, and preservation of evidentiary items located at the crime scene. Improved education, coordination and communication between the crime scene investigators and forensic scientist experts creates a seamless analytical process flow, enabling greater focus on high value evidence with decreased response time and greater impact on investigational direction. Real time data from focused forensic analyses and use of databases provides primary investigative leads, with suspect identities, whereabouts at the time of crime commission, links to other crimes and other critical collaborative crime solving information. Case examples highlighting successful application of various aspects of this model will be provided, with recommendations for implementation including Rapid DNA and supporting business cases.
Keywords: Proactive crime scene response; Crime scene; Forensic laboratory; Backlog; Tiered analysis; Focused analysis; Rapid DNA; Business case

Jorge Bernal Bernabe, Martin David, Rafael Torres Moreno, Javier Presa Cordero, Sébastien Bahloul, Antonio Skarmeta,
ARIES: Evaluation of a reliable and privacy-preserving European identity management framework,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 102,
2020,
Pages 409-425,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2019.08.017.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X1930843X)
Abstract: Despite several efforts in the last years to make Identity Management Systems (IdMs) reliable, secured and privacy-respectful, identity-related cybercrimes are still continuously expanding. Current IdMs lack of proper security and privacy mechanisms that can holistically manage user’s privacy, strong authentication and ID-proofing mechanisms based on biometrics, usage of breeder documents, while maintaining usability for mobile, online or face-to-face scenarios. To fill this gap, the ARIES EU project aims to set up a reliable identity ecosystem, combining mature technologies for meet highest level of assurance, such as biometrics or use of secure elements, with innovative credential derivation mechanisms. ARIES has devised and implemented a privacy-preserving and user-centric Identity Management framework as well as associated management practices that ensure usability and flexibility for identity management processes. This paper presents ARIES results obtained after the successful development and validation of the ARIES IdM System in the associated use cases.
Keywords: Privacy; Security; Risk reduction; Identity management systems; Identification; Biometrics; Virtual identities; Identity derivation; Secure wallet

Subir Halder, Amrita Ghosal, Mauro Conti,
Secure over-the-air software updates in connected vehicles: A survey,
Computer Networks,
Volume 178,
2020,
107343,
ISSN 1389-1286,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2020.107343.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1389128619314963)
Abstract: Current trends forecast that Over-the-Air (OTA) software updates will be highly significant for future connected vehicles. The OTA update will enable upgrading the vehicle functionalities or bug fixations in the embedded software installed on its Electronic Control Units (ECUs) remotely. The introduction of OTA updates in the automotive industry has brought many advantages for both the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) and the driver/owner. However, in terms of security, OTA updates are highly critical as they need complete access to the in-vehicle communication network. This survey highlights and discusses OTA software updates in the automotive sector, mainly from the security perspective. The major objective of this survey is to deliver a comprehensive outline of various research directions and approaches in OTA update technologies in vehicles. At first, we discuss the connected vehicle technology and then integrate the relationship of OTA update features with the connected vehicle. We further discuss both promising and secure OTA update approaches, that have gained a lot of attention recently. Furthermore, we present a comprehensive comparative study of the existing OTA update approaches on the basis of strengths, weaknesses and evaluation setup. The survey also focuses on the existing vehicle features that support OTA updates, and customer satisfaction and usability. Finally, we identify possible future research directions of OTA updates for automobiles, particularly in the area of security.
Keywords: Cellular network; Connected vehicle; Electronic control unit; On board diagnostic; Original equipment manufacturer; Over-the-air update; Local update

Wakana Takahashi,
Economic rationalism or administrative rationalism? Curbside collection systems in Sweden and Japan,
Journal of Cleaner Production,
Volume 242,
2020,
118288,
ISSN 0959-6526,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.118288.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0959652619331580)
Abstract: Sweden and Japan are environmental leaders in their regions; however, Sweden has shown much better performance in the development of a circular economy. This paper suggests that different environmental discourses between the two countries help explain this gap. An actor-discourse analysis was conducted, taking the case of curbside collection systems. Results show that in Sweden, producers have physical and financial responsibility for collection and recycling while municipalities are responsible for planning and providing information. Economic incentives are well considered, and easy waste sorting at home is a shared norm, fostering systematic improvement of curbside collection systems and drastically increasing recycling rates. In Japan, in contrast, producers address recycling, municipalities do collection, and consumers cover sorting. The necessity of promoting consumer awareness of recycling is broadly accepted, but systematic thinking has not been introduced; as a result, primitive curbside collection systems remain mainstream in Japan, and it is not easy to sort waste at home. Thus, Sweden has favored economic rationalism while Japan administrative rationalism and, the former has been more effective.
Keywords: Curbside collection systems; Economic rationalism; Administrative rationalism; Sweden; Japan

Marc-André Laverdière, Karl Julien, Ettore Merlo,
RBAC protection-impacting changes identification: A case study of the security evolution of two PHP applications,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 139,
2021,
106630,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2021.106630.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584921000999)
Abstract: Abstract:
Web applications often use Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) to restrict operations and protect security sensitive information and resources.
Context:
Web applications’ RBAC security may be affected by source code changes between releases. Developers should re-validate their application prior to release, but this may be labor and resource-intensive.
Objective:
Among all changes between two versions during software evolution, we define Protection-Impacting Changes (PICs) as changed statements that potentially alter privilege protection of other statement(s). PICs may focus the attention of developers towards root cause candidates for security protection changes, especially when these protection changes are unexpected.
Method:
The proposed automated static analysis identifies PICs between two versions of an application. It is based on the interprocedural flow graph reachability analysis of security checks and statements.
Results:
We examined the software evolution of two PHP web applications. We examined 210 versions of WordPress, and 192 versions of MediaWiki. Additional experiments have been performed on 19 fix commits corresponding to Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures CVEs from WordPress. They are presented and discussed in this paper and show that PICs contain 98.2% of the CVE oracle root causes.
Conclusion:
PICs represent overall only 8% and 2% of total code changes, respectively for WordPress and MediaWiki. PICs may help developers to focus onto a smaller number of candidate security-related problems, during software evolution. Consequently, developers may re-validate application security and perform repairs more efficiently.
Keywords: Program analysis; Software evolution; Role-base access control; Software security

Francisco Durán, Camilo Rocha, Gwen Salaün,
Resource provisioning strategies for BPMN processes: Specification and analysis using Maude,
Journal of Logical and Algebraic Methods in Programming,
Volume 123,
2021,
100711,
ISSN 2352-2208,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jlamp.2021.100711.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352220821000742)
Abstract: Business process optimization is a strategic activity in organizations because of its potential to increase profit margins and reduce operational costs. One of the main challenges in this activity is concerned with the problem of optimizing allocation and sharing of resources. Companies are continuously adjusting their resources to their needs following different strategies. However, the dynamic provisioning strategies are hard to compare. This paper proposes an automatic analysis technique to evaluate and compare the execution time and resource occupancy of a business process relative to a workload and a provisioning strategy. Four different strategies are presented, which are guided by, respectively, recent resource usage, recent resource request, predicted behavior, and a combination of available strategies. Such analysis is performed on models conforming to an extension of BPMN with quantitative information, including resource availability and constraints. Within this framework, the approach is fully mechanized using a formal and executable specification in the Maude rewriting logic framework, which relies on existing techniques and tools for simulating probabilistic and real-time specifications. The paper includes results on the extensive experimentation that has been carried out for validation purposes.
Keywords: Business processes; BPMN; Resource provisioning; Rewriting logic; Maude; Simulation-based analysis

Lauren E. Au, Shannon E. Whaley, Christina A. Hecht, Marisa M. Tsai, Christopher E. Anderson, Alana M. Chaney, Nicole Vital, Catherine E. Martinez, Lorrene D. Ritchie,
A Qualitative Examination of California WIC Participants’ and Local Agency Directors’ Experiences during the Coronavirus Disease 2019 Pandemic,
Journal of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics,
Volume 122, Issue 12,
2022,
Pages 2218-2227.e21,
ISSN 2212-2672,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jand.2022.07.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S221226722200627X)
Abstract: Background
The US Department of Agriculture granted waivers to allow flexibility in the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) operations during the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic; however, research examining the associations between waiver introduction and changes in perceptions, practices, and challenges of WIC participants’ and agency directors’ experiences is limited.
Objective
The objective of this study was to assess California WIC participants’ and agency directors’ perceptions and practices of remote WIC services during the COVID-19 pandemic. A secondary aim was to understand other COVID-19 challenges related to maintaining access to healthy foods by WIC participants.
Design
A qualitative study that included semistructured interviews was conducted between June 2020 and March 2021.
Participants and setting
One hundred eighty-two WIC participants with a child aged 0 to 5 years from three regions of California (Southern, Central, and Northern) and 22 local WIC agency directors across the state were interviewed.
Main outcome measures
WIC participants’ and agency directors’ perceptions, practices, and other challenges during COVID-19.
Statistical analyses performed
Interviews were recorded, transcribed, and analyzed using a grounded theory approach.
Results
Participants shared that they valued the information received from WIC and were very satisfied with remote WIC services. Participants reported that enrolling in WIC remotely was easier than coming in person. All waivers and changes to WIC operations, namely the physical presence, remote benefit issuance, and separation of duties waivers, and remote work and remote delivery of nutrition education, were largely viewed by WIC agency directors as options that should be continued postpandemic. Further, a majority (63%) of households reported experiencing food insecurity, and half of respondents received food from a food bank or pantry during the pandemic.
Conclusions
Findings suggest WIC will attract and retain the most families by offering a hybrid model of services, incorporating both onsite services and remote options to work more efficiently and effectively.
Keywords: COVID-19; Pandemic; WIC; Staff; Remote; Waivers

Wanyun Li,
Disclosure of internal control material weaknesses and optimism in analyst earnings forecasts,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 44,
2022,
100545,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2021.100545.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089521000476)
Abstract: This paper investigates how analyst forecast optimism is associated with disclosures of internal control material weaknesses (ICMWs) and their remediation under Section 404 of the Sarbanes–Oxley Act (SOX). Drawing on agency theory, I hypothesize that analysts are likely to issue earnings forecasts that are more optimistic for firms with ICMW disclosures than for those without ICMW disclosures. Using a sample of 20,875 firm-year observations with 10-K (10-Q) reports from 2004 to 2018, I find a positive association between ICMW disclosures and analyst forecast optimism. This positive association is partially driven by investors’ inability to unravel analyst forecast bias and analysts’ intentions to curry favor with management for private information. In addition, analysts are found to issue less optimistic forecasts for firms with ICMW remediation disclosures compared with those without ICMW remediation disclosures. A series of propensity score matching and regression analyses are conducted to test the robustness of my inferences. Overall, the paper suggests that analysts have incentives to take the opportunity of firms disclosing ICMWs to bias their forecasts upward for self-interest. The findings have the potential to assist regulators in guiding analyst behavior and educating investors to unravel positive bias in analyst forecasts.
Keywords: Sarbanes–Oxley Act; Internal control material weaknesses; Remediation; Analyst forecasts; Analyst optimism; Investor uncertainty

Namratha Ramanan, Peter Adriaenssens, Ilse Derluyn, Lucia De Haene,
“The mother I was born to or the one I worked for?”: An exploratory study on family separation in live-in child domestic workers in Karnataka, India,
Child Abuse & Neglect,
Volume 117,
2021,
105081,
ISSN 0145-2134,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chiabu.2021.105081.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S014521342100154X)
Abstract: Background
Live-in child domestic work is a mostly exploitative informal labour sector that involves child migration and long-term, most often forced separation from family and extended family network. This is the first empirical exploration of children’s lived experiences of ongoing family-child separation in the context of child domestic work.
Objective
While numerous studies conducted on childhood, child development and child health in the context of child labour argue that family separation is detrimental to children’s psychosocial health, little is known about how this separation is understood by children living through ongoing separation while being employed in child domestic work. This study aimed at an empirical exploration of how child domestic workers experience the impact, meaning of, and coping with family separation in the context of child domestic work.
Participants and setting
10 children (10–14 years old) working as live-in domestic help in Karnataka, India.
Methods
Data collection for this small-scale, exploratory qualitative study consisted of the administration of consecutive (2–3) task-based narrative interviews, involving graphic elicitation and doll-play techniques, with live-in child domestic workers.
Results
Findings from children’s narrative accounts indicate how they relate ongoing family separation to cultural meaning systems regarding filial duty, family cohesion, and the role of the extended family network as a way of understanding, living and coping with family-child separation in the face of the stressors of live-in child domestic work.
Conclusions
This paper generates an explorative understanding of how children make meaning of family separation, and their perspectives on re-uniting with their families. It also aims to aid organizations in designing family re-integration protocols based on perspectives gleaned from the children.
Keywords: Child domestic work; Family separation; Filial duty; Cultural meaning systems

Timo Nolle, Stefan Luettgen, Alexander Seeliger, Max Mühlhäuser,
BINet: Multi-perspective business process anomaly classification,
Information Systems,
Volume 103,
2022,
101458,
ISSN 0306-4379,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2019.101458.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306437919305101)
Abstract: In this paper, we introduce BINet, a neural network architecture for real-time multi-perspective anomaly detection in business process event logs. BINet is designed to handle both the control flow and the data perspective of a business process. Additionally, we propose a set of heuristics for setting the threshold of an anomaly detection algorithm automatically. We demonstrate that BINet can be used to detect anomalies in event logs not only at a case level but also at event attribute level. Finally, we demonstrate that a simple set of rules can be used to utilize the output of BINet for anomaly classification. We compare BINet to eight other state-of-the-art anomaly detection algorithms and evaluate their performance on an elaborate data corpus of 29 synthetic and 15 real-life event logs. BINet outperforms all other methods both on the synthetic as well as on the real-life datasets.
Keywords: Business process management; Anomaly detection; Artificial process intelligence; Deep learning; Recurrent neural networks

Abdia Hamdani, Abdelkrim Abdelli,
Towards modelling and analyzing timed workflow systems with complex synchronizations,
Journal of King Saud University - Computer and Information Sciences,
Volume 32, Issue 4,
2020,
Pages 491-504,
ISSN 1319-1578,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jksuci.2019.08.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S131915781930182X)
Abstract: Nowadays, workflow systems are becoming very complex, involving time constraints, priorities on tasks as well as elaborated synchronization schemes. As a result, the specification and the verification of such systems are demanding much theory to prove their correctness and determine their qualitative and quantitative properties. In this paper, we mainly deal with complex synchronization on timed workflow systems. To address this issue, we redefine the concept of rendezvous as a mechanism to synchronize time constrained concurrent tasks of different privileges (Master, Slave). We discuss the different strategies that a rendezvous can follow, and hence we determine all the synchronizations patterns that could be considered in specifying its behaviour. From there, we deduce 36 generic synchronization rules that can be associated with the concept of rendezvous. Based on this theory, we extend the Time Petri Nets formalism to the concept of rendezvous to introduce the RTPN model (Time Petri Nets with rendezvous). Then, a subclass of RTPNs called Time Workflow-nets with Rendezvous (RTWF-nets), are defined for the modelling and the analysis of timed workflow systems. Finally, a case study is addressed to show how our framework can deal efficiently and elegantly with complex synchronization requirements.
Keywords: Workflow; Pattern; Synchronization; Rendezvous; Petri Nets; Real time systems

Abdellah Akilal, M-Tahar Kechadi,
An improved forensic-by-design framework for cloud computing with systems engineering standard compliance,
Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation,
Volume 40,
2022,
301315,
ISSN 2666-2817,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fsidi.2021.301315.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2666281721002407)
Abstract: “Forensic-by-design” is an emergent and ambitious paradigm that extends the Digital Forensic Readiness (DFR) perspective. Similar to Security-by-design, this new vision advocates the integration of Forensic requirements into the system's design and development stages to get “Forensic-ready” systems. While it seems promising, we hypothesize that: (a) this new alternative is not effective for some open boundaries systems, and (b) this strategy is not fully aligned with the Systems and software Engineering (SE) standards. A six phases research methodology based on systematic literature review, mapping, and analysis was adopted. Our results confirm indeed the stated hypothesis, identify missing key factors, and point out potential omissions. A new System and software Engineering driven Forensic-by-design framework, with an emphasis on Cloud computing systems, is therefore proposed.
Keywords: Forensic-by-design; Digital forensic readiness; Forensic-ready; Cloud forensics; System and software engineering; Cloud computing systems

Daniel J. Finch, Vincent D. Pellegrini, Patricia D. Franklin, Laurence S. Magder, Christopher E. Pelt, Brook I. Martin, James A. Browne, Charles M. Davis, Navin D. Fernando, Kevin B. Fricka, Richard J. Friedman, Kevin L. Garvin, Richard Iorio, Michael S. Kain, Stephen L. Kates, Carol A. Lambourne, Brent A. Lanting, Carlos J. Lavernia, Brock A. Lindsey, William J. Maloney, Robert M. Molloy, Michael A. Mont, Wayne E. Moschetti, James Nace, Charles L. Nelson, Kevin I. Perry, James D. Slover, Mark J. Spangehl, Lawrence M. Specht, Scott M. Sporer, Robert S. Sterling, Lucian C. Warth,
The Effects of Bundled Payment Programs for Hip and Knee Arthroplasty on Patient-Reported Outcomes,
The Journal of Arthroplasty,
Volume 35, Issue 4,
2020,
Pages 918-925.e7,
ISSN 0883-5403,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arth.2019.11.028.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0883540319311003)
Abstract: Background
Patient-reported outcomes are essential to demonstrate the value of hip and knee arthroplasty, a common target for payment reforms. We compare patient-reported global and condition-specific outcomes after hip and knee arthroplasty based on hospital participation in Medicare’s bundled payment programs.
Methods
We performed a prospective observational study using the Comparative Effectiveness of Pulmonary Embolism Prevention after Hip and Knee Replacement trial. Differences in patient-reported outcomes through 6 months were compared between bundle and nonbundle hospitals using mixed-effects regression, controlling for baseline patient characteristics. Outcomes were the brief Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score or the brief Hip Disability and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score, the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System Physical Health Score, and the Numeric Pain Rating Scale, measures of joint function, overall health, and pain, respectively.
Results
Relative to nonbundled hospitals, arthroplasty patients at bundled hospitals had slightly lower improvement in Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score (−1.8 point relative difference at 6 months; 95% confidence interval −3.2 to −0.4; P = .011) and Hip Disability and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score (−2.3 point relative difference at 6 months; 95% confidence interval −4.0 to −0.5; P = .010). However, these effects were small, and the proportions of patients who achieved a minimum clinically important difference were similar. Preoperative to postoperative change in the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System Physical Health Score and Numeric Pain Rating Scale demonstrated a similar pattern of slightly worse outcomes at bundled hospitals with similar rates of achieving a minimum clinically important difference.
Conclusions
Patients receiving care at hospitals participating in Medicare’s bundled payment programs do not have meaningfully worse improvements in patient-reported measures of function, health, or pain after hip or knee arthroplasty.
Keywords: patient-reported outcomes; bundled payments; total knee arthroplasty; total hip arthroplasty; KOOS; HOOS

Rafaela Araújo Jordão Rigaud Peixoto,
The interface between specialized translation and institutional translation: A selection of candidate terms validated by Aeronautical Meteorology corpora,
Applied Corpus Linguistics,
Volume 3, Issue 2,
2023,
100051,
ISSN 2666-7991,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.acorp.2023.100051.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2666799123000114)
Abstract: The purpose of this work is to revise and expand an aeronautical meteorology glossary, available at REDEMET, a homepage hosted on the Department of Airspace Control website, taking into consideration corpus data in the field. For that, to best meet the needs of institutions and users, data were compiled from some segments of the Aeronautical Meteorology domain. During the compilation of this corpus, it was noticed that there was a great scarcity of specialized sources of this Aviation subdomain in English and, mainly, in Portuguese, including material by the Department of Airspace Control (DECEA), the only official Brazilian institution with the role of regulating standards relevant to Aeronautical Meteorology. By taking into account that a given government institution is considered an authoritative source concerning terms used in a specialized domain, it would be advisable to align professional and academic expertise, and institutional interests. Therefore, based on contributions of corpus linguistics theories, terminology, and institutional translation, this work relied on established parameters for the compilation and processing of information for inclusion in the corpus, and focused, in this first stage, on the selection of candidate terms, according to corpus analysis. The first results showed that institutional and academic segments present some subtleties regarding terminology, as, on the one hand, some words are more specific to the academic register and, on the other hand, there are different uses of terms in the institutional setting, by ICAO, WMO, or FAA.
Keywords: Corpus linguistics; Institutional translation; Aviation; Aeronautical meteorology

Padmavathi Iyer, Amirreza Masoumzadeh, Paliath Narendran,
On the Expressive Power of Negated Conditions and Negative Authorizations in Access Control Models,
Computers & Security,
Volume 116,
2022,
102586,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2021.102586.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404821004090)
Abstract: Access control policies specify which access requests should be allowed or denied in a system. Many access control policy models have used the concept of “negation” as part of their policy language, to enable fine-grained specification of authorizations. We identify two forms of this concept in the literature, namely, negated conditions and negative authorizations (deny rules). We argue that the choice of supporting negated conditions or negative authorizations can affect the expressive power of a policy model. Understanding their differences is crucial for designing an appropriate policy model for an intended application. However, no prior work has concretely analyzed them. In this work, we formally analyze the expressive power of negated conditions and negative authorizations. We formulate two abstract policy models that support negated conditions and negative authorizations (including consideration of different meta-policies). Then, using a logic-based representation of policies, we prove the relative expressive power of those models in the context of a formal access control expressiveness analysis framework. The main result of our analysis is that models which support negated conditions are more expressive than models that support negative authorizations. That is, using negated conditions, we can represent all policies that can be expressed using negative authorizations. However, the converse is not true, i.e., negative authorizations cannot fully represent policies supporting negated conditions.
Keywords: access control policy; expressiveness; negation; negated condition; negative authorization

Marcelo Antonio de Carvalho Junior, Paulo Bandiera-Paiva,
Implications of loosened Role-based Access Control session control implementation for the enforcement of Dynamic Mutually Exclusive Roles properties on Health Information Systems,
Informatics in Medicine Unlocked,
Volume 27,
2021,
100780,
ISSN 2352-9148,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.imu.2021.100780.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352914821002513)
Abstract: Role-based Access Control (RBAC) session control is used in the authorization vetting of controlled objects within the system to check if a user intended action is permitted by the associated roles that he/she possesses. The session control is also used to enforce Separation of Duty (SoD) via the Dynamic Mutually Exclusive Roles (DMER), limiting the roles that can be associated with a particular user during a session due to its conflicted permission nature. The RBAC requirements that dictate session controls functions preventing conflicted roles to be assigned to users can be poorly implemented because of possible interpretation of the RBAC standard. This loosened interpretation is here discussed by assessing RBAC function textual description and objectives and by formally stating the different interpretations using Z notation and Colored Petri Nets (CPN) to effectively demonstrate the resulting functionality and its reflexes on system use. Three different aspects of security properties are discussed comparing the interpretations and impacts on the RBAC functionality: a) the implications of user's authorization characterization on system's session, b) the actual DMER conflict detection capability, and c) possible collusion scenarios considering RBAC administrator capabilities. Two different interpretations of the RBAC session-control function are formally defined in full, to leverage investigation of its inner functionalities and expected behaviour on the system. The assessment of the functionalities is presented in order to highlight ambiguities that could lead to less secure implementations so as to provide for a more robust RBAC description that can cope with more rigid and predictable behaviour on Health Information Systems (HIS). Outcomes from poorly session-control implementation on a system include the inability to fulfil healthcare corporate security policy or even allowing illegal actions to take place due to the absence of expected restrictions and constraints imposed on user's interactions.
Keywords: Access control; Formal description; System security assessment

Duo Pei, Miklos A. Vasarhelyi,
Big data and algorithmic trading against periodic and tangible asset reporting: The need for U-XBRL,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 37,
2020,
100453,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2020.100453.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089520300208)
Abstract: The gradual but marked decline in the correspondence between aggregated accounting numbers and market valuations, such as stock returns, is a well-documented phenomenon in the research literature (Lev and Zarowin, 1999). Rapid advances in technology have paved the way for the collection of unprecedented volumes of data. Currently, the slow speed of information dissemination, laggard accounting systems, and a focus on high levels of aggregation are perhaps the largest contributors to waning relevance of financial reporting. The fight for trading superiority is leading users to seek relevant data elsewhere and may contribute to these observed effects. This paper proposes an accounting system known as User XBRL (U-XBRL) designed to overcome these issues. This system collects, analyzes, and displays information in such a way that caters to the speed, detail, and customization demands of modern-day stakeholders (Krahel and Titera, 2015). U-XBRL amalgamates all types of data pertinent to a business, including both internal company data and exogenous source data. Each piece of data is assigned to a firm resource according to the resource-based view. Then, U-XBRL standardizes the information according to data standards and feeds it to a central repository. This repository is primarily organized through XBRL tags and is governed secondarily by other standards and taxonomies. A number of applications can be used individually to select data from the repository for analysis. Using U-XBRL the recognition, monitoring, and assurance of resources are streamlined.
Keywords: XBRL; New accounting system; Resource-based view; Continuous monitoring; Ad-hoc financial reporting

Syed Rizvi, Tatiana Zwerling, Benjamin Thompson, Shawn Faiola, Shakir Campbell, Stephen Fisanick, Codi Hutnick,
A modular framework for auditing IoT devices and networks,
Computers & Security,
Volume 132,
2023,
103327,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2023.103327.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404823002377)
Abstract: In recent years, we have seen significant growth in the use of IoT devices as part of conventional enterprise networks to increase the operations, services, and functionality of business processes. The use of IoT technologies in businesses is expected to grow more in the coming years due to smart sensors, more computing power, and reliable mobile connectivity with 5 G capabilities. Since enterprise networks are liable to customers’ data and they generally have to follow certain compliances and regulations (e.g., PCI-DSS, HIPAA, etc.), they are always concerned about the overall security of their IT and security infrastructures. To address this concern, they have IT auditors that periodically analyse and assess different parts of IT infrastructure to ensure processes and systems run accurately and efficiently while remaining secure and meeting compliance regulations. Unfortunately, as of this writing, there is no customized or standalone standard that IT auditors can follow when they evaluate an IT infrastructure that has IoT devices installed. Since IoT devices have their own unique characteristics, it does not practical to use traditional IT auditing standards to audit IoT devices nor such practices can provide any meaningful audit results that can prevent corporations from violating their required compliances or regulations. This implies that if organizations want to take full advantage of IoT technologies for increasing profitability, they cannot rely on conventional IT auditing practices unless the auditors are equipped with a proper auditing framework tailored to audit IoT devices. Motivated by this, we present a modular IoT auditing framework to audit an enterprise network that consists of IoT devices. To support the implementation of the proposed framework, we provide a set of auditing questions covering all security-related features of IoT devices such as firmware, hardware, physical/logical security, communication, and data privacy.
Keywords: Data privacy; Iot security; Security auditing; Iot device security; Security assessment

Shekhar Pawar, Dr. Hemant Palivela,
LCCI: A framework for least cybersecurity controls to be implemented for small and medium enterprises (SMEs),
International Journal of Information Management Data Insights,
Volume 2, Issue 1,
2022,
100080,
ISSN 2667-0968,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jjimei.2022.100080.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2667096822000234)
Abstract: Globally Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) are the biggest contributors to the economy by providing two-thirds of global employment opportunities and more than half the GDP of the developed economies. Regardless of many existing cybersecurity standards or frameworks, SMEs are most vulnerable to cyber threats. SMEs face serious impacts on their existence if undergo successful cyber-attacks by cybercriminals. There is a need to understand the challenges SMEs are facing especially in the implementation of cybersecurity controls. Through a research survey conducted by authors where one hundred and fifteen SMEs voluntarily participated, this research paper will throw light on the current cybersecurity controls implementation posture for different SMEs, along with the challenges they are facing which are stopping them to decide, plan and implement cybersecurity controls. Further, using an analysis of the inputs and the core concepts of cybersecurity, the authors are also going to propose a recommended solution for SMEs.
Keywords: Small and medium enterprise (SME); Cybersecurity; Cybersecurity controls

Robert C. Fuller, Philippe Kruchten,
Blurring boundaries: Toward the collective empathic understanding of product requirements,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 140,
2021,
106670,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2021.106670.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584921001312)
Abstract: Context
Many software product companies create cross-functional development teams that own a product or a defined set of features. These product teams often require a deep and collective understanding of the product domain, a rich context within which to understand the product requirements and to make decisions throughout the development process.
Objective
Little is known about what supports or impedes these teams in collectively achieving this deep understanding. This paper identifies certain organisational conditions that impact teams in this respect.
Method
Using Constructivist Grounded Theory method, we studied 18 teams across seven software companies creating products for a diverse range of markets.
Results
The study found certain organisational and planning process factors play a significant role in whether product development teams have the potential to collectively develop deep domain understanding. These factors also impact individual and development team dynamics.
Conclusions
We identify two essential metaphorical dynamics, broadening the lens and blurring boundaries, that cross-functional product teams employ in order to fully embrace product ownership, visioning, and planning towards achieving this rich context for understanding product requirements. We also conclude that the highly specialised nature of many organisational models and development processes is contraindicated for cross-functional product development teams in achieving this deep collective understanding and we call for a revisiting of conventional organisational and product planning practices for software product development.
Keywords: Requirements understanding and validation; Empathy-driven development; Product team organisation; Collective sensemaking; Constructivist Grounded Theory

Matteo Zavatteri, Carlo Combi, Romeo Rizzi, Luca Viganò,
Consistency checking of STNs with decisions: Managing temporal and access-control constraints in a seamless way,
Information and Computation,
Volume 280,
2021,
104637,
ISSN 0890-5401,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ic.2020.104637.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0890540120301255)
Abstract: A Simple Temporal Network (STN) consists of time points modeling temporal events and constraints modeling the minimal and maximal temporal distance between them. A Simple Temporal Network with Decisions (STND) extends an STN to model temporal plans with decisions. STNDs label time points and constraints by conjunctions of literals saying for which scenarios (i.e., complete truth value assignments to the propositions) they are relevant. In this paper, we deal with the use of STNDs for modeling and synthesizing execution strategies. We propose an incremental hybrid SAT-based consistency checking algorithm for STNDs that is faster than the one previously proposed and allows for the synthesis of all consistent scenarios and related early execution schedules (offline temporal planning). We carry out an experimental evaluation with Kappa, a tool that we developed for STNDs. We also show that any STND can be easily translated into a disjunctive temporal network and vice versa.
Keywords: Simple temporal network with decisions; HSCC algorithms; Incremental SAT-solving; Disjunctive temporal network; Temporal constraints; Access control

Dongjoon Choi, Hansol Lee, Ho-Young Lee, Hyun-Young Park,
The association between human resource investment in IT controls over financial reporting and investment efficiency,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 43,
2021,
100534,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2021.100534.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089521000361)
Abstract: This study investigates the association between human resource investment in information technology (IT) controls over financial reporting and its investment efficiency. To conduct the analysis, it uses novel hand-collected data on the number of IT control personnel. In particular, it uses the ratio of (1) the number of IT control personnel, (2) the number of IT control personnel who are certified public accountants to the total number of employees in a firm, and (3) the natural logarithm of average working experience of IT control personnel in months as a proxy for human resource investment in IT controls. This study finds that such investment is negatively associated with the firm's abnormal investment, suggesting that investing in IT control personnel enhances a firm's investment efficiency. Furthermore, not only quantitative but also qualitative investment in IT control personnel improves investment efficiency. We also find that the association between human resource investment in IT controls and a firm's investment efficiency is more pronounced for firms with lower financial reporting quality and information environment. The results of this study provide useful implications for management, regulators, and market participants, as they demonstrate the positive role of investment in IT control personnel on the firm's internal decision.
Keywords: Internal control; IT control; Investment efficiency; Sarbanes–Oxley Act; Human resource; Financial reporting quality

Tiffany J. Westfall, Mark Myring,
Are voluntary internal control weakness disclosures in initial public offerings associated with managerial ability and subsequent financial reporting quality?,
Advances in Accounting,
Volume 59,
2022,
100617,
ISSN 0882-6110,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.adiac.2022.100617.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0882611022000360)
Abstract: This study examines whether voluntary disclosure of internal control weaknesses (ICWs) in IPO registration statements is associated with managerial ability and subsequent SOX 404 adverse audit opinions. Using a sample of IPO registrants that voluntarily disclosed ICWs in their registration statements, we examine the relationship between ICW disclosure, managerial ability, and subsequent material weaknesses in internal control. We find that IPO registrants with higher managerial ability are more likely to disclose ICWs voluntarily than other registrants. Further, we find evidence that registrants that include voluntary ICW disclosures are more likely to subsequently receive an adverse SOX 404 audit opinion. Additionally, we find evidence that registrants are associated with negative cumulative abnormal returns when an auditor issues an adverse SOX 404 auditor opinion regardless of whether the ICWs were disclosed in the registration statement.
Keywords: Internal control; Voluntary disclosure; Managerial ability; Material weakness; Initial public offerings; SOX 404

Gabriel Velandia-Pacheco, Adalberto Escobar-Castillo, Evaristo Navarro-Manotas, Jorge Otalora-Beltrán, Wendell Archibold-Barrios, Stefanell Franklin-Navarro, Liliana Ramos-Barrios, José García-Rodríguez,
Factorial Analysis in the internal control's dimensions on lithographic companies,
Procedia Computer Science,
Volume 203,
2022,
Pages 688-692,
ISSN 1877-0509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2022.07.102.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050922007074)
Abstract: Previous studies have highlighted the influence of control mechanisms on organizational performance, since it reduces uncertainty in decision making. However, there is no evidence of literature demonstrating how managers apply internal control strategies to create dynamic tensions that contribute to superior performance. Therefore, the objective of the article is to analyze the dimensions of internal control in the lithographic companies of Barranquilla. A positivist, explanatory and non-experimental research was developed. As an instrument for collecting information, a Likert-type ordinal scale questionnaire was produced for 150 managers of the companies under study. On the other hand, a confirmatory factor analysis was applied as a statistical technique. The results show that risk assessment (0.968), control environment (0.959) and information and communication (0.957) are the dimensions of internal control that present the greatest loads within the factorial model, which allows us to deduce that, in the companies studied the development of strategies to reduce the risks inherent in their business activities becomes more relevant; thus guaranteeing the achievement of corporate objectives by reducing information asymmetry and incorporating tools that make communication more effective.
Keywords: Internal control; control environment; risk assessment; information; communication; self-control; control activities; monitoring

Yangyang Fu, Zheng O'Neill, Zhiyao Yang, Veronica Adetola, Jin Wen, Lingyu Ren, Tim Wagner, Qi Zhu, Terresa Wu,
Modeling and evaluation of cyber-attacks on grid-interactive efficient buildings,
Applied Energy,
Volume 303,
2021,
117639,
ISSN 0306-2619,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2021.117639.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306261921010060)
Abstract: Grid-interactive efficient buildings (GEBs) are not only exposed to passive threats (e.g., physical faults) but also active threats such as cyber-attacks launched on the network-based control systems. The impact of cyber-attacks on GEB operation are not yet fully understood, especially as regards the performance of grid services. To quantify the consequences of cyber-attacks on GEBs, this paper proposes a modeling and simulation framework that includes different cyber-attack models and key performance indexes to quantify the performance of GEB operation under cyber-attacks. The framework is numerically demonstrated to model and evaluate cyber-attacks such as data intrusion attacks and Denial-of-Service attacks on a typical medium-sized office building that uses the BACnet/IP protocol for communication networks. Simulation results show that, while different types of attacks could compromise the building systems to different extents, attacks via the remote control of a chiller yield the most significant consequences on a building system’s operation, including both the building service and the grid service. It is also noted that a cyber-attack impacts the building systems during the attack period as well as the post-attack period, which suggests that both periods should be considered to fully evaluate the consequences of a cyber-attack.
Keywords: Cyber-attacks; Grid-interactive efficient buildings; Demand flexibility

Martin K. Nielsen, Ashley E. Steuer, Haley P. Anderson, Stefan Gavriliuc, Alyssa B. Carpenter, Elizabeth M. Redman, John S. Gilleard, Craig R. Reinemeyer, Jocelyn Poissant,
Shortened egg reappearance periods of equine cyathostomins following ivermectin or moxidectin treatment: morphological and molecular investigation of efficacy and species composition,
International Journal for Parasitology,
Volume 52, Issue 12,
2022,
Pages 787-798,
ISSN 0020-7519,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpara.2022.09.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S002075192200131X)
Abstract: Macrocyclic lactones have been the most widely used drugs for equine parasite control during the past four decades. Unlike ivermectin, moxidectin exhibits efficacy against encysted cyathostomin larvae, and is reported to have persistent efficacy with substantially longer egg reappearance periods. However, shortened egg reappearance periods have been reported recently for both macrocyclic lactones, and these findings have raised several questions: (i) are egg reappearance period patterns different after ivermectin or moxidectin treatment? (ii) Are shortened egg reappearance periods associated with certain cyathostomin species or stages? (iii) How does moxidectin’s larvicidal efficacy affect egg reappearance period? To address these questions, 36 horses at pasture, aged 2–5 years old, were randomly allocated to three treatment groups: 1, moxidectin; 2, ivermectin; and 3, untreated control. Strongylid fecal egg counts were measured on a weekly basis, and the egg reappearance period was 5 weeks for both compounds. Strongylid worm counts were determined for all horses: 18 were necropsied at 2 weeks post-treatment (PT), and the remaining 18 at 5 weeks PT. Worms were identified to species morphologically and by internal transcribed spacer-2 (ITS-2) rDNA metabarcoding. Moxidectin and ivermectin were 99.9% and 99.7% efficacious against adults at 2 weeks post treatment, whereas the respective efficacies against luminal L4s were 84.3% and 69.7%. At 5 weeks PT, adulticidal efficacy was 88.3% and 57.6% for moxidectin and ivermectin, respectively, while the efficacy against luminal L4s was 0% for both drugs. Moxidectin reduced early L3 counts by 18.1% and 8.0% at 2 or 5 weeks, while the efficacies against late L3s and mucosal L4s were 60.4% and 21.2% at the same intervals, respectively. The luminal L4s surviving ivermectin treatment were predominantly Cylicocyclus (Cyc.) insigne. The ITS-2 rDNA metabarcoding was in good agreement with morphologic species estimates but suggested differential activity between moxidectin and ivermectin for several species, most notably Cyc. insigne and Cylicocyclus nassatus. This study was a comprehensive investigation of current macrocyclic lactone efficacy patterns and provided important insight into potential mechanisms behind shortened egg reappearance periods.
Keywords: Macrocyclic lactones; Strongyle; Anthelmintic resistance; Horse

Ibtihal A. Abed, Nazimah Hussin, Hossam Haddad, Tareq Hammad Almubaydeen, Mostafa A. Ali,
Creative Accounting Determination and Financial Reporting Quality: The Integration of Transparency and Disclosure,
Journal of Open Innovation: Technology, Market, and Complexity,
Volume 8, Issue 1,
2022,
38,
ISSN 2199-8531,
https://doi.org/10.3390/joitmc8010038.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2199853122010472)
Abstract: ABSTRACT
The phenomenon of creative accounting has attracted the attention of researchers for decades, especially in the financial sector for its implications on the quality of financial reporting. Although several procedures have been developed by researchers and practitioners to determine any manipulation in financial reporting, the practice of creative accounting is still prevalent, resulting in poor quality financial reporting. The present study investigated the moderating role of transparency and disclosure with respect to enhancing the impact of creative accounting determinants and financial reporting quality in the context of commercial banking. A deductive research method driven by a survey questionnaire is used to examine the proposed hypotheses and attain the designed objectives. The analysed data provide a theoretical conceptualisation and practical validation for the integration of the moderator in the relationship between creative accounting determinants and financial reporting quality in banks, with significant advantages. Furthermore, the present research findings show that the degree of impact for creative accounting determinants is linked to the aspects of transparency and disclosure. Lastly, the results present concurrent evidence of the flexibility of creative accounting determinants with implications for transparency and disclosure and financial reporting quality.
Keywords: ethical issues; disclosure quality; internal control; ownership structure; qualitative characteristics; manipulation; information asymmetry; commercial banks

Lena Wiese, Tim Waage, Michael Brenner,
CloudDBGuard: A framework for encrypted data storage in NoSQL wide column stores,
Data & Knowledge Engineering,
Volume 126,
2020,
101732,
ISSN 0169-023X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.datak.2019.101732.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169023X19304331)
Abstract: Nowadays, cloud storage providers are widely used for outsourcing data. These remote cloud servers are not trustworthy when storing sensitive data. In this article we focus on the use case of storing data in a cloud database using a particular sub-category of NoSQL databases — so-called wide column stores. Unfortunately security was not a primary concern of the NoSQL systems designers. Using encryption before outsourcing the data can provide security. Conventional encryption however limits the options for interaction because the encrypted data lacks properties of the plaintext data that the database systems rely on. Various schemes have been proposed for property-preserving encryption in order to overcome these issues, allowing a database to process queries over encrypted data. In this article we comprehensively present details of our framework CloudDBGuard that allows using property-preserving encryption in unmodified wide column stores. It hides the complexity of the encryption and decryption process and allows various adjustments on specific use cases in order to achieve a maximum of security, functionality and performance.
Keywords: Property-preserving encryption; NoSQL databases; Wide Column Stores

Adel Jebali, Salma Sassi, Abderrazak Jemai, Richard Chbeir,
Secure data outsourcing in presence of the inference problem: A graph-based approach,
Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing,
Volume 160,
2022,
Pages 1-15,
ISSN 0743-7315,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpdc.2021.09.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0743731521001842)
Abstract: In light of the emergence of Database-as-a-Service paradigm, secure data outsourcing has become one of the crucial challenges which strongly imposes itself. In such a scenario, access control is considered as a major challenge. In fact, access control policies of the data owner must be preserved when data is moved to the cloud. Here, we address this problem by considering inference leakage that could be produced by exploiting functional dependencies. The proposed approach is based on vertical partitioning to produce a set of secure sub-schemas stored in separated partitions in the distributed system. Then, we extend this approach by presenting a secure query processing model to preserve access control policies when querying data from distributed partitions. The effectiveness of our algorithms is confirmed through observations from a variety of conducted experiments.
Keywords: Access control; Inference control; Data dependencies; Distributed databases; Security and privacy

Jamal N. Al-Karaki, Amjad Gawanmeh, Sanaa El-Yassami,
GoSafe: On the practical characterization of the overall security posture of an organization information system using smart auditing and ranking,
Journal of King Saud University - Computer and Information Sciences,
Volume 34, Issue 6, Part A,
2022,
Pages 3079-3095,
ISSN 1319-1578,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jksuci.2020.09.011.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1319157820304742)
Abstract: The lack of national security standardization bodies can have adverse impact on the adoption of international security standards and best practices. To assure security confidence among various organizations and to promote systematic adoption of standards and best standards, a practical framework that can support comparative measures is needed. . This paper presents GoSafe, a novel practical cybersecurity assessment framework that is tailored to the ISO 2700x standard requirements for the development of Information Security Management System (ISMS). GoSafe can be used for both self-assessment and auditing/scoring tool by national cybersecurity authorities. Using GoSafe, organizations can evaluate their existing information security management systems against local and international standards by utilizing built-in pre-audit tools. As such, GoSafe will help organizations evaluate and enhance their readiness for evolving risks and threats. In GoSafe framework, a novel mathematical model was also designed and implemented for the scoring/rating tool, namely, the national cyber security index (aeNCI). The aeNCI employs multiple parameters to determine the maturity of existing cybersecurity programs at national organizations and generate a classification and comparison reports. The efficacy of GoSafe proposed framework is demonstrated using a practical case study. The results enabled the stakeholder to verify the security configuration of their systems and identify potential attack/risk vectors.
Keywords: ISO/IEC 27001; Information security management system ISMS; Security ratings; Security governance; Risk analysis

Mohsin Ur Rahman, Barbara Guidi, Fabrizio Baiardi,
Blockchain-based access control management for Decentralized Online Social Networks,
Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing,
Volume 144,
2020,
Pages 41-54,
ISSN 0743-7315,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpdc.2020.05.011.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0743731520302902)
Abstract: Online Social Networks (OSNs) represent today a big communication channel where users spend a lot of time to share personal data. Unfortunately, the big popularity of OSNs can be compared with their big privacy issues. Indeed, several recent scandals have demonstrated their vulnerability. Decentralized Online Social Networks (DOSNs) have been proposed as an alternative solution to the current centralized OSNs. DOSNs do not have a service provider that acts as central authority and users have more control over their information. Several DOSNs have been proposed during the last years. However, the decentralization of the social services requires efficient distributed solutions for protecting the privacy of users. During the last years the blockchain technology has been applied to Social Networks in order to overcome the privacy issues and to offer a real solution to the privacy issues in a decentralized system. However, in these platforms the blockchain is usually used as a storage, and content is public. In this paper, we propose a manageable and auditable access control framework for DOSNs using blockchain technology for the definition of privacy policies. The resource owner uses the public key of the subject to define auditable access control policies using Access Control List (ACL), while the private key associated with the subject’s Ethereum account is used to decrypt the private data once access permission is validated on the blockchain. We provide an evaluation of our approach by exploiting the Rinkeby Ethereum testnet to deploy the smart contracts. Experimental results clearly show that our proposed ACL-based access control outperforms the Attribute-based access control (ABAC) in terms of gas cost. Indeed, a simple ABAC evaluation function requires 280,000 gas, instead our scheme requires 61,648 gas to evaluate ACL rules.
Keywords: Decentralized Online Social Networks; Blockchain; Privacy issue; Access control list

Keshnee Padayachee,
Understanding the effects of situational crime prevention and personality factors on insider compliance,
Journal of Information Security and Applications,
Volume 70,
2022,
103338,
ISSN 2214-2126,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jisa.2022.103338.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214212622001831)
Abstract: This study investigated the moderating effects of situational factors and personality factors on an insider's attitude towards insider compliance within the domain of information security. The situational factors consider the manipulation of the environment via measures of Situational Crime Prevention. There is a dearth of studies that consider the moderating effects of situational factors and personality factors on the information security domain. Studies of this nature could be significant for organizations grappling with the insider threat problem – a challenging and multifaceted domain that requires a multipronged mitigation strategy with technical, organizational, socio-technical, and sociological effects. This study considers the socio-technical influence of the human element on the information security domain.
Keywords: Insider threats; Personality; Situational crime prevention; Compliance; Attitude

Myeongki Jeong, Hangjung Zo,
Preventing insider threats to enhance organizational security: The role of opportunity-reducing techniques,
Telematics and Informatics,
Volume 63,
2021,
101670,
ISSN 0736-5853,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tele.2021.101670.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S073658532100109X)
Abstract: Insider threats are one of the major potential risks jeopardizing organizational security. Many organizations have applied opportunity-reducing techniques to enhance security. These techniques have been classified into hard and soft forms based on their potential propensity to infringe on employees’ personal space. Hard form techniques have been widely adopted owing to their efficiency in saving cost and time. However, this study argues that hard form techniques would restrict personal autonomy, leading employees to disrespect the organizational security policies. To test the research hypotheses, a scenario-based questionnaire survey was conducted on 5,158 Prolific Academic members with working experience in the service industry and research and development, and the information industry. Two hundred and fifty-nine valid responses were analyzed using partial least square based structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM). The results show that the hard form techniques induce employees to feel intrusion of their privacy, making them morally irresponsible for their behavior, and even committing an insider attack. Hard form techniques can produce an adverse effect that is opposite to the intended purpose. The results imply that the practical method of making hard controls less intrusive, including the implementation of soft controls and horizontal decision-making processes for security policies, should be explored.
Keywords: Insider threats; Situational crime prevention theory; Opportunity-reducing techniques; Privacy-security tradeoff; Social contract theory; Moral disengagement

Federico d’Amore, Luis M.C. Pereira, Stefano Campanari, Matteo Gazzani, Matteo C. Romano,
A novel process for CO2 capture from steam methane reformer with molten carbonate fuel cell,
International Journal of Hydrogen Energy,
2023,
,
ISSN 0360-3199,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2023.06.137.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360319923030161)
Abstract: Hydrogen (H2) production via steam methane reforming is a mature and cost-effective technology. However, carbon capture and storage is required to decrease its carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. The adoption of molten carbonate fuel cells as means to capture CO2 from flue gases is attracting scientific interest thanks to their inherent thermodynamic advantage of separating CO2 while producing electricity. This study investigates and benchmarks the performance of an H2 production plant equipped with molten carbonate fuel cell for post-combustion CO2 capture, by proposing a novel configuration where the cell anode is fed with the carbon-rich off-gas from the H2 separation unit. It emerges that the process can achieve higher capture rates than the reference solvent-based plant: 85–90% with single cell, 95% with two-stage cell. Moreover, recycling the carbon-rich off gas to the anode allows for smaller cell area, and potentially lower H2 production costs compared to the benchmark.
Keywords: Steam methane reformer; Molten carbonate fuel cell; Carbon dioxide capture; Process simulation; Techno-economic modelling

Evripidis P. Kechagias, Georgios Chatzistelios, Georgios A. Papadopoulos, Panagiotis Apostolou,
Digital transformation of the maritime industry: A cybersecurity systemic approach,
International Journal of Critical Infrastructure Protection,
Volume 37,
2022,
100526,
ISSN 1874-5482,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijcip.2022.100526.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1874548222000166)
Abstract: Information system solutions are increasingly being applied to the maritime industry, and eventually, all aspects of maritime operations will be aided by the digital transformation of the industry. The maritime industry is a sector driven by compliance and historically deals with security and safety matters at an international level. It has been recognized that safety and security in maritime heavily depend on cyber systems and cybersecurity implementation requirements have started to get integrated into maritime's regulatory context. This paper focuses on cybersecurity in the maritime industry, presenting an inside view of maritime cybersecurity aspects and offering a detailed case study analysis based on a real-world company's approach. The main objective of the paper is, therefore, to connect research with practice, presenting a maritime company's cybersecurity systemic approach with references to procedures and policies. The findings of the case study and the cyber security vessel audit survey that is performed show that the company was able to assess its current status, collect evidence and objectively determine security gaps, and achieve cyber risks mitigation. The gained knowledge will be used in the future to continuously improve the company's systems and move to a more predictive and proactive maturity level.
Keywords: Cybersecurity; Maritime; Cyberattack; Information Technologies; Digital transformation; System

Craig Beaman, Ashley Barkworth, Toluwalope David Akande, Saqib Hakak, Muhammad Khurram Khan,
Ransomware: Recent advances, analysis, challenges and future research directions,
Computers & Security,
Volume 111,
2021,
102490,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2021.102490.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016740482100314X)
Abstract: The COVID-19 pandemic has witnessed a huge surge in the number of ransomware attacks. Different institutions such as healthcare, financial, and government have been targeted. There can be numerous reasons for such a sudden rise in attacks, but it appears working remotely in home-based environments (which is less secure compared to traditional institutional networks) could be one of the reasons. Cybercriminals are constantly exploring different approaches like social engineering attacks, such as phishing attacks, to spread ransomware. Hence, in this paper, we explored recent advances in ransomware prevention and detection and highlighted future research challenges and directions. We also carried out an analysis of a few popular ransomware samples and developed our own experimental ransomware, AESthetic, that was able to evade detection against eight popular antivirus programs.
Keywords: Ransomware; Cybersecurity; Antivirus; Malware; Ransomware prevention; COVID-19; Ransomware detection

Evelyn J. Morris, Emilee L. Quinn, Chelsea M. Rose, Marie Spiker, Jean O’Leary, Jennifer J. Otten,
Insights from Washington State’s COVID-19 Response: A Mixed-Methods Evaluation of WIC Remote Services and Expanded Food Options Using the RE-AIM Framework,
Journal of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics,
Volume 122, Issue 12,
2022,
Pages 2228-2242.e7,
ISSN 2212-2672,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jand.2022.03.013.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212267222001691)
Abstract: Background
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, Washington State’s Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WA WIC) adopted federal waivers to transition to remote service delivery for certification and education appointments. WA WIC also expanded the approved food list without using federal waivers, adding more than 600 new items to offset challenges participants experienced accessing foods in stores.
Objective
This study aimed to assess the reach and effectiveness of the programmatic changes instituted by WA WIC during the COVID-19 pandemic; the processes, facilitators, and challenges involved in their implementation; and considerations for their continuation in the future.
Design
A mixed-methods design, guided by the RE-AIM framework, including virtual, semi-structured focus groups and interviews with WA WIC staff and participants, and quantitative programmatic data from WIC agencies across the state.
Participants/setting
This study included data from 52 state and local WIC staff and 40 WIC participants across the state of Washington and from various WA WIC programmatic records (2017-2021). The research team collected data and conducted analyses between January 2021 and August 2021.
Analysis
An inductive thematic analysis approach with Dedoose software was used to code qualitative data, generate themes, and interpret qualitative data. Descriptive statistics were calculated for quantitative programmatic data, including total participant count, percent increase and decrease in participation, percent of food benefits redeemed monthly, and appointment completion rates.
Results
All WA WIC participants (n = 125,279 in May 2020) experienced the programmatic changes. Participation increased by 2% from March to December 2020 after WA WIC adopted programmatic changes in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Certification and nutrition education completion rates increased by 5% and 18% in a comparison of June 2019 with June 2020. Food benefit redemption also increased immediately after the food list was expanded in April 2020. Staff and participants were highly satisfied with remote service delivery, predominantly via the phone, and participants appreciated the expanded food options. Staff and participants want a remote service option to continue and suggested various changes to improve service quality.
Conclusions
Participation in WIC and appointment completion rates increased after WA WIC implemented service changes in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Staff and participants were highly satisfied with remote services, and both desire a continued hybrid model of remote and in-person WIC appointments. Some of the suggested changes to WIC, especially the continuation of remote services, would require federal policy change, and others could be implemented under existing federal regulations.
Keywords: WIC; RE-AIM; Mixed methods; COVID-19; Public health nutrition

Antonia M. Reina Quintero, Salvador Martínez Pérez, Ángel Jesús Varela-Vaca, María Teresa Gómez López, Jordi Cabot,
A domain-specific language for the specification of UCON policies,
Journal of Information Security and Applications,
Volume 64,
2022,
103006,
ISSN 2214-2126,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jisa.2021.103006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S221421262100212X)
Abstract: Security policies constrain the behavior of all users of an information system. In any non-trivial system, these security policies go beyond simple access control rules and must cover more complex and dynamic scenarios while providing, at the same time, a fine-grained level decision-making ability. The Usage Control model (UCON) was created for this purpose but so far integration of UCON in mainstream software engineering processes has been very limited, hampering its usefulness and popularity among the software and information systems communities. In this sense, this paper proposes a Domain-Specific Language to facilitate the modeling of UCON policies and their integration in (model-based) development processes. Together with the language, an exploratory approach for policy evaluation and enforcement of the modeled policies via model transformations has been introduced. These contributions have been defined on top of the Eclipse Modeling Framework, the de-facto standard MDE (Model-Driven Engineering) framework making them freely available and ready-to-use for any software designer interested in using UCON for the definition of security policies in their new development projects.
Keywords: Cybersecurity; Access control; Model-driven engineering; UCON; DSL

M. Bas Seyyar, Z.J.M.H. Geradts,
Privacy impact assessment in large-scale digital forensic investigations,
Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation,
Volume 33,
2020,
200906,
ISSN 2666-2817,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fsidi.2020.200906.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2666281720300263)
Abstract: The large increase in the collection of location, communication, health data etc. from seized digital devices like mobile phones, tablets, IoT devices, laptops etc. often poses serious privacy risks. To measure privacy risks, privacy impact assessments (PIA) are substantially useful tools and the Directive EU 2016/80 (Police Directive) requires their use. While much has been said about PIA methods pursuant to the Regulation EU 2016/679 (GDPR), less has been said about PIA methods pursuant to the Police Directive. Yet, little research has been done to explore and measure privacy risks that are specific to law enforcement activities which necessitate the processing of large amounts of data. This study tries to fill this gap by conducting a PIA on a big data forensic platform as a case study. This study also answers the question how a PIA should be carried out for large-scale digital forensic operations and describes the privacy risks, threats we learned from conducting it. Finally, it articulates concrete privacy measures to demonstrate compliance with the Police Directive.
Keywords: Privacy impact assessment (PIA); Data protection impact assessment (DPIA); Big data forensics; Privacy; Directive EU 2016/80; Police directive; Law enforcement directive; Big data; Digital forensics

Akin Menekse, Hatice Camgoz-Akdag,
Internal audit planning using spherical fuzzy ELECTRE,
Applied Soft Computing,
Volume 114,
2022,
108155,
ISSN 1568-4946,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asoc.2021.108155.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1568494621010188)
Abstract: Internal audit is an independent and objective assurance and consulting activity that aims to improve the operations of an organization and add value to them. Planning internal audit by prioritizing the units to be audit is critical in terms of effective use of available audit and financial resources. In this paper, a new ELimination and Choice Translating Reality (ELECTRE) based decision support model is developed for addressing an internal audit prioritization problem. Spherical fuzzy sets are used for modeling the uncertainty in the nature of the problem and three different approaches are proposed within the study. The first approach is constructed with gradual concordance and discordance sets by comparing spherical fuzzy membership, non-membership, and hesitancy degrees of alternatives; the second approach is developed based on a single type of outranking relation obtained by utilizing score and accuracy functions of spherical fuzzy sets, and the third approach provides an increased fuzziness modeling capacity by using interval-valued spherical fuzzy sets. In the application part of the study, the units of an organization are prioritized for internal audit activity based on five components of the internationally recognized Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO) framework. Sensitivity analyses for decision-maker and criterion weights and a comparative analysis with six other state-of-the-art multi-criteria decision making (MCDM) models are also presented to analyze the consistency and validity of the proposed spherical fuzzy ELECTRE model.
Keywords: Single-valued spherical fuzzy sets; Interval-valued spherical fuzzy sets; ELECTRE; Multi-criteria decision-making; Internal audit

Fenghua Li, Zifu Li, Liang Fang, Yongjun Li, Yaobing Xu, Yunchuan Guo,
Securing instruction interaction for hierarchical management,
Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing,
Volume 137,
2020,
Pages 91-103,
ISSN 0743-7315,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpdc.2019.10.010.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0743731519303144)
Abstract: Hierarchical management is a typical approach to managing complex information networks (CINs). In hierarchical management, as the only avenue to control information storage, transmission and usage, instruction interaction is often exploited by attackers to threaten CINs security. Now it has become a major challenge to ensure the security of instruction interaction. To address this challenge, in this paper, we propose a security model to manage instruction interaction for the hierarchical management in CINs. First, considering instruction lifecycle, we design five basic instruction operations (i.e., instruction generation, distribution, decomposition, execution, and execution outcome feedback) and formally define their semantics. Then a series of security rules for the basic operations are proposed to monitor and control the instruction interactions. We prove that, through these rules, both controllability and confidentiality can be provided. Finally, case studies demonstrate the feasibility of the proposed model.
Keywords: Security model; Complex information network; Instruction control; Hierarchical multi-domain access

Cibin Joseph, Ranjith Mohan,
A parallel, object-oriented framework for unsteady free-wake analysis of multi-rotor/wing systems,
Computers & Fluids,
Volume 215,
2021,
104788,
ISSN 0045-7930,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compfluid.2020.104788.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045793020303583)
Abstract: The development, validation, and applications of an object-oriented free-wake solver for multi-rotor and fixed-wing systems are outlined here. Advantages of utilizing the object-oriented philosophy for modeling the multi-rotor/wing free-wake problem are described. To explore the feasibility of utilizing conventional desktop workstations, the vortex lattice methodology’s time complexity is examined as an evolving n-body problem and the advantage gained from employing wake roll up models is demonstrated. Modifications in typical formulae to leverage features of multi-core systems and improvements in computational performance obtained from these modifications are illustrated using a roofline analysis. The free-wake solver incorporating these optimizations is then employed—after extensive validation—to simulate a distributed propulsion aircraft and a multi-rotor urban mobility vehicle. The paper also proposes a novel lattice skew parameter for monitoring instabilities in wake solutions commonly observed in rotorcraft free-wake analysis.
Keywords: Unsteady vortex lattice method; Free wake analysis; Distributed propulsion; Roofline analysis; Lattice skew parameter

Julia Kokina, Shay Blanchette,
Early evidence of digital labor in accounting: Innovation with Robotic Process Automation,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 35,
2019,
100431,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2019.100431.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089519301101)
Abstract: Robotic Process Automation (RPA) is an emerging technology that enables the automation of rules-based business processes and tasks through the use of software bots. Drawing upon the theory of Task-Technology Fit (TTF) and Technology-to-Performance Chain (TPC) (Goodhue and Thompson 1995) and research on expert systems (Messier and Hansen 1987; Sutton 1990), this study explores emerging themes surrounding bot implementation for accounting and finance tasks. We collect and analyze interview data from adopters of RPA and document task suitability, task-technology fit, implementation issues, and resulting performance outcomes. We find that securing technical capability is only a part of RPA implementation process. Organizations engage in standardization and optimization of processes, develop scorecard-like tools to rank tasks, adjust governance structures to include digital employees, and redefine internal controls. Organizations benefit from automating only certain processes, those that are structured, repeated, rules-based, and with digital inputs. Along with cost savings, organizations experience improved process documentation, lower error rates, more accurate measurement of process performance, and better report quality.
Keywords: Robotic process automation; Intelligent process automation; Digital labor; Accounting automation; Accounting innovation; Accounting digitalization; Robotics

Shuyuan Mary Ho, Melissa Gross,
Consciousness of cyber defense: A collective activity system for developing organizational cyber awareness,
Computers & Security,
Volume 108,
2021,
102357,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2021.102357.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404821001814)
Abstract: Cloud environments enable organizations to offer uninterrupted delivery of information and services to their subscribers. Unfortunately, these platforms also create opportunities for cyber-attacks. As organizations become increasingly virtual, the channel that enables authorized users to access targeted information becomes the same channel used by hackers to propagate mischief. Cyber defense has thus become a dynamic challenge in the ever-connected cloud space. This study adopts the lens of activity theory to conceptualize cyber defense as an activity system and offers a transformative approach to developing organizational cyber awareness. The study contributes to organizational collective learning mechanisms in building effective computer incident response teams for cybersecurity operations.
Keywords: Human-computer interaction; Activity theory; Organizational learning; Computer incident response; Cybersecurity operations

Bettina Fazzinga, Francesco Folino, Filippo Furfaro, Luigi Pontieri,
An ensemble-based approach to the security-oriented classification of low-level log traces,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 153,
2020,
113386,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2020.113386.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417420302104)
Abstract: Traditionally, Expert Systems have found a natural application in the behavioral analysis of processes. In fact, they have proved effective in the tasks of interpreting the data collected during the process executions and of analyzing these data with the aim of diagnosing/detecting anomalies. In this context, we focus on log data generated by executions of business processes, and consider the issue of detecting “insecure” process instances, involving some kind of security breach (e.g. attacks, frauds). We propose a hybrid framework for accomplishing a security-oriented classification of activity-unawaretraces, i.e., traces consisting of “low-level” events with no explicit reference to the “high-level” activities the analysts are typically familiar with. The framework integrates two classification approaches traditionally used as alternative ways to decide on the “secureness” of process traces: (i) a model-driven approach, using knowledge of behavioral models expressed at the abstraction level of the activities, and (ii) an example driven approach, exploiting the availability of event sequences labeled by experts as symptomatic of “secure” or “insecure” behavior. The core of our solution is a meta-classifier combining (i) and (ii) thanks to a probabilistic Montecarlo mechanism that allows the traces to be simultaneously viewed as sequences of low-level events and of high-level activities. The framework has been empirically proved effective in jointly exploiting the two aforementioned forms of knowledge/expertise, typically coming from different experts, and in acting as a sort of “super-expert” classification tool. Its accuracy and efficiency make it a solid basis for implementing a novel kind of expert system for the security-oriented monitoring/analysis of business processes.
Keywords: Business process analysis; Process mining; Security; Classification

Patricia Navarro, Sean W.G. Robb, Steve G. Sutton, Martin M. Weisner,
The cost stickiness of information technology material weaknesses: An intertemporal comparison between it-related and other material weaknesses,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 37,
2020,
100454,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2020.100454.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S146708952030021X)
Abstract: The PCAOB's audit firm inspections drive audit focus and costs. The PCAOB's 2010-initiated increased emphasis on internal control audit work intensified concern over internal control weaknesses (ICW). IT-related material weaknesses (ITMW) have emerged as particularly significant with PCAOB reports (2008, 2012) highlighting on-going deficiencies in IT controls auditing and the 2015 PCAOB brief noting an on-going focus on recurring audit deficiencies. We explore how ICW affect audit fees and how alternative types of ITMW lead to varying degrees of persistence in fee premiums. Using propensity score matched samples, we find fee premiums associated with ITMW linger longer than premiums for non-IT entity-level material weaknesses (ELMW) or firms reporting account-specific material weaknesses. Moreover, we find that audit fee premiums by type of ICW remediated is overall strongest for ITMW linked to data processing integrity. Our findings underscore the importance of distinguishing not only between non-IT ELMW and ITMW but also types of ITMW as identified in data quality research.
Keywords: Audit fees; Data quality; Internal controls; Material weakness; Remediation; SOX 404

James Richardson,
Is there a silver bullet to stop cybercrime?,
Computer Fraud & Security,
Volume 2020, Issue 5,
2020,
Pages 6-8,
ISSN 1361-3723,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-3723(20)30050-6.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361372320300506)
Abstract: While the benefits of the latest mobile devices, smart capabilities or automated processes can't be disputed, the need to be constantly vigilant goes hand-in-hand with them. This is especially true for businesses and banks, pressured by tech-savvy vendors and customers to adopt the latest payment methods. Fraud continues to be a top concern, and dealing with it is a constant battle. However, with the right mix of fraud controls and resources, there is a way to gain the advantage, says James Richardson of Bottomline Technologies. As we embark on the new decade, the growth of technological advancements and innovations continues to accelerate. Not surprisingly, the impact and influence that technology has on our personal and professional lives deepens and expands accordingly. But while the quantitative and qualitative benefits of the latest mobile device, smart capability or automated process can't be disputed, the need to be constantly vigilant goes hand-in-hand.

Andrea Tesei, Domenico Lattuca, Marco Luise, Paolo Pagano, Joaquim Ferreira, Paulo C. Bartolomeu,
A transparent distributed ledger-based certificate revocation scheme for VANETs,
Journal of Network and Computer Applications,
Volume 212,
2023,
103569,
ISSN 1084-8045,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2022.103569.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1084804522002107)
Abstract: The widespread adoption of Cooperative, Connected, and Automated Mobility (CCAM) applications requires the implementation of stringent security mechanisms to minimize the surface of cyber attacks. Authentication is an effective process for validating user identity in vehicular networks. However, authentication alone is not enough to prevent dangerous attack situations. Existing security mechanisms are not able to promptly revoke the credentials of misbehaving vehicles, thus tolerate malicious actors to remain trusted in the system for a long time. The resulting vulnerability window allows the implementation of complex attacks, thus posing a substantial impairment to the security of the vehicular ecosystem. In this paper we propose a Distributed Ledger-based Vehicular Revocation Scheme that improves the state of the art by providing a vulnerability window lower than 1 s, reducing well-behaved vehicles exposure to sophisticated and potentially dangerous attacks. The proposed scheme harnesses the advantages of the underlying Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) to implement a privacy-aware revocation process while being fully transparent to all participating entities. Furthermore, it meets the critical message processing times defined by EU and US standards, thus closing a critical gap in the current international standards. Theoretical analysis and experimental validation demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed scheme, where DLT streamlines the revocation operation overhead and delivers an economically viable yet scalable solution against cyber attacks on vehicular systems.
Keywords: Certificate revocation scheme; Transparency; Privacy; Vehicular Public Key Infrastructure; Distributed Ledger Technology; Intelligent Transportation Systems; Vehicular Ad-hoc Networks

Brita Munsinger, Nicole Beebe, Turquoise Richardson,
Virtual reality for improving cyber situational awareness in security operations centers,
Computers & Security,
Volume 132,
2023,
103368,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2023.103368.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016740482300278X)
Abstract: Security operations centers (SOCs) are the 911 centers of many organizational networks, except they not only respond, but also monitor. SOC operators are charged with detection, response, and mitigation. This is a tall task when one considers the volume, velocity, and variety of both internal and external organizational network and system data. SOC operations are truly a big data problem. Security orchestration, incident event management, data fusion, and anomaly detection systems help, but more is needed. This study examines the impact virtual reality (VR) can have on SOC operator performance and perceived task load. We developed a VR based network monitoring tool and assigned human subjects to one of three conditions – VR only, traditional tool only, or both. Our results, though small in scale, provide very promising indication that VR based technology may be beneficial for improving cyber situational awareness (SA), particularly with overall data perception involving novice SOC operators. The results are promising, but the sample size is small, so future research should validate this pilot study. Given the workforce challenges in the cybersecurity space, and the need to perceive large quantities of data, VR may be a very good addition to SOCs.
Keywords: Cyber situational awareness; Virtual reality; Security operations centers; Network monitoring

Viktoriia Filippova,
Adaptation of the indigenous peoples to climate change effects in Yakutia: Gender aspects,
Polar Science,
Volume 26,
2020,
100596,
ISSN 1873-9652,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polar.2020.100596.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1873965220301146)
Abstract: Global climate change is one of the main problems facing humans at the beginning of the 21st century. In the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia), it has led to significant social consequences, especially those caused by flooding, which is very common in the region. One way of protecting settlements from catastrophic floods is to relocate them to non-flooded terraces. In the article, the author examined the local adaptation to consequences of flooding after relocation the cases two villages, Kyllakh and Khatystyr. Field studies of adaptations to the relocation showed social down sides, including the risks of broken family ties, as well as artificially created gender tension. Currently, residents of the two villages are divided into two groups. Families with children live in the new village sites (mostly women with preschool and schoolchildren), while the older population stay in the old village sites. The article analyses the causes and consequences of this gender situation.
Keywords: Climate change; Floods; Indigenous peoples; Arctic; Russia; Yakutia

Marc Baaden,
Deep inside molecules - digital twins at the nanoscale,
Virtual Reality & Intelligent Hardware,
Volume 4, Issue 4,
2022,
Pages 324-341,
ISSN 2096-5796,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.vrih.2022.03.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2096579622000171)
Abstract: Background
Offer rich potential for exploration in virtual reality. Using interactive molecular simulation approaches, they enable a human operator to access the physical properties of molecular objects and to build, manipulate, and study their assemblies. Integrative modeling and drug design are important application areas.
Methods
In this study, head-mounted virtual reality displays connected to molecular simulation engines were used to create interactive and immersive digital twins. They were used to perform specific tasks relevant to the use cases.
Results
Three areas were investigated: Model building, rational design, and the use of tangible models. We report several membrane-embedded systems of ion channels, viral components, and artificial water channels. We were able to improve and create molecular designs based on digital twins.
Conclusions
The molecular application domain offers great opportunities and most of the technical and technological aspects have been solved. Wider adoption is expected once the onboarding of VR is simplified and the technology gains wider acceptance.
Keywords: Digital twins; Molecular simulation; Virtual reality

Yim King Penny Wan, Xiangping Li, Virginia Meng-Chan Lau, Leonardo (Don) Dioko,
Destination governance in times of crisis and the role of public-private partnerships in tourism recovery from Covid-19: The case of Macao,
Journal of Hospitality and Tourism Management,
Volume 51,
2022,
Pages 218-228,
ISSN 1447-6770,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhtm.2022.03.012.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1447677022000602)
Abstract: The coronavirus disease (COVID-19) has had a significant negative impact on many industries, tourism being among the most severely impacted. To recover from the crisis speedily, a responsive mode of governance that can draw on different stakeholders’ efforts is required. Through qualitative interviews with key informants from major associations and government offices related to tourism, this study examines how Macao adopted public-private partnership governance to aid the recovery of its tourism industry. Specifically, the study investigates the roles of government and the crisis leader in post-COVID tourism recovery, the changes in consumer markets, and collaborative efforts of tourism business sectors and destination marketing organizations. This study contributes to deciphering how public-private partnerships can help tourism recovery, as well as the importance of crisis leadership in the process. The study also provides suggestions for industry partners regarding how they can act and respond to crises more effectively.
Keywords: COVID-19 pandemic; Tourism recovery; Public-private partnerships; Crisis leader; Governance; Macao

Lee D. Parker, Jana Schmitz,
The Reinvented accounting firm office: Impression management for efficiency, client relations and cost control,
Accounting, Organizations and Society,
Volume 98,
2022,
101306,
ISSN 0361-3682,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aos.2021.101306.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0361368221000842)
Abstract: The office has become a large scale organisational phenomenon accommodating large numbers of organisational employees most often housed in open plan and Activity Based Working settings that arguably resemble the new factory. This study examines contemporary Big 4 accounting firm office design innovations and their representation with a view to eliciting their claimed rationales, reflections of historical office design and management thinking, and apparent strategic agendas with respect to office efficiency, client relations and cost control involved in their offering of professional services. In doing so, it also explores the implications that public practice firms' office design may have for auditor independence and audit quality. Informed by Goffman's theories of impression management, the study employs historical and website analysis, finding a predominant firm focus on office efficiency and client relations with an undercurrent of cost reduction and revenue enhancement aspirations. While represented as innovative current office design and work pattern developments, public practice accounting firm office innovations and intentions are found to significantly reflect historical office design and management thinking, with dramaturgical circumspection of floor designs and props oriented towards creating front stage performances predesigned for clients' impression management. Where backstage redesign and frame breaking does not produce desired employee performance changes, some signs of retreating to more traditional floor redesign and territorial marker usage are evident. The study also signals the potential for innovative accounting firm office designs to carry some significant impacts upon audit independence and audit quality.
Keywords: Big 4 accounting firms; ABW; Open plan office; Office efficiency; Client relations; Cost control; Audit independence; Audit quality

Mahmood Niazi, Ashraf Mohammed Saeed, Mohammad Alshayeb, Sajjad Mahmood, Saad Zafar,
A maturity model for secure requirements engineering,
Computers & Security,
Volume 95,
2020,
101852,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2020.101852.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404820301243)
Abstract: Security is considered to be a critical software quality attribute. Tackling security at the requirements phase helps to avoid the need to rework secure software development issues. The aim of this paper is to develop a Requirements Engineering (RE) Security Maturity Model (RESMM) to assist software development organizations to better specify the requirements for secure software development. To achieve this objective, first, we conducted a systematic literature review (SLR) to identify the requirement practices for secure software development. Then we modified Sommerville's requirements engineering practices. We also conducted a questionnaire survey based on the identified security requirements practices. Next, the RESMM was built based on the results of the SLR, the modified Sommerville practices and feedback from the security practitioners. Finally, two case studies were conducted to assess RESMM. RESMM has 79 practices classified into 7 RE categories. The case study results show that RESMM has a clear structure and is easy to comprehend and use. In addition, the case study participants recommended that software organizations adopt RESMM. RESMM has the ability to identify the RE security maturity levels in software organizations. RESMM can also help software development organizations deliver secure software.

Ricardo J. Rodríguez, Stefano Marrone, Ibai Marcos, Giuseppe Porzio,
MOSTO: A toolkit to facilitate security auditing of ICS devices using Modbus/TCP,
Computers & Security,
Volume 132,
2023,
103373,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2023.103373.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404823002833)
Abstract: The integration of the Internet into industrial plants has connected Industrial Control Systems (ICS) worldwide, resulting in an increase in the number of attack surfaces and the exposure of software and devices not originally intended for networking. In addition, the heterogeneity and technical obsolescence of ICS architectures, legacy hardware, and outdated software pose significant challenges. Since these systems control essential infrastructure such as power grids, water treatment plants, and transportation networks, security is of the utmost importance. Unfortunately, current methods for evaluating the security of ICS are often ad-hoc and difficult to formalize into a systematic evaluation methodology with predictable results. In this paper, we propose a practical method supported by a concrete toolkit for performing penetration testing in an industrial setting. The primary focus is on the Modbus/TCP protocol as the field control protocol. Our approach relies on a toolkit, named MOSTO, which is licensed under GNU GPL and enables auditors to assess the security of existing industrial control settings without interfering with ICS workflows. Furthermore, we present a model-driven framework that combines formal methods, testing techniques, and simulation to (formally) test security properties in ICS networks.
Keywords: Industrial control systems; Penetration testing; Security auditing; Modbus

Colin Topping, Andrew Dwyer, Ola Michalec, Barnaby Craggs, Awais Rashid,
Beware suppliers bearing gifts!: Analysing coverage of supply chain cyber security in critical national infrastructure sectorial and cross-sectorial frameworks,
Computers & Security,
Volume 108,
2021,
102324,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2021.102324.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404821001486)
Abstract: Threat actors are increasingly targeting extended supply chains and abusing client-supplier trust to conduct third-party compromise. Governments are concerned about targeted attacks against critical national infrastructures, where compromise can have significant adverse national consequences. In this paper we identify and review advice and guidance offered by authorities in the UK, US, and the EU regarding Cyber Supply Chain Risk Management (C-SCRM). We then conduct a review of sector specific guidance in the three regions for the chemical, energy, and water sectors. We assessed frameworks that each region’s sector offered organisations for C-SCRM suitability. Our results found a range of interpretations for “Supply Chain” that resulted in a diversity in the quantity and quality of advice offered by regional authorities, sectors, and their frameworks. This is exacerbated by the lack of a common taxonomy to support supply chain procurement and risk management that has led to limited coverage in most C-SCRM programs. Our results highlight the need for a taxonomy regarding C-SCRM and systematic guidance (both general and sector specific) to enable controls to be deployed to mitigate against supply chain risk. We provide an outline taxonomy based on our data analysis to promote further discussion and research.
Keywords: Cyber security; Supply chain; Risk management; Critical national infrastructure; Common taxonomy

Indu Singh, Narendra Kumar, Srinivasa K.G., Tript Sharma, Vaibhav Kumar, Siddharth Singhal,
Database intrusion detection using role and user behavior based risk assessment,
Journal of Information Security and Applications,
Volume 55,
2020,
102654,
ISSN 2214-2126,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jisa.2020.102654.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214212620308115)
Abstract: Present-day organizations continue to expose their critical information infrastructures over the Internet for facilitating accessibility; substantially raising concerns about the security of data from both outsiders and insiders. In this paper, we propose a novel approach for detecting intrusive attacks on databases by assessing the risk for incoming transaction based upon the conflation of multiple behavior-based components for the user. In a database intrusion detection system for a role-based access (RBAC) environment, it is not sufficient to focus on role-based features as every user within the same role has a degree of uniqueness. Moreover, traditional database intrusion detection systems classify the incoming transactions into two classes (Malicious or Non-malicious), taking the same action for all transactions that are labeled as malicious irrespective of the damage it can cause to the system. Our approach, Role and User Behavior-based Risk Assessment (RUBRA) uses both role-behavior and user-behavior based features for detecting an intrusive attack. Further, we also quantify the risk associated with the incoming transaction, streamlining the countermeasure process. Experiments on stochastic datasets show promising results on both detection and labeling of malicious transactions.
Keywords: Database intrusion detection; User and role behavior analysis; Weighted sequential pattern mining; Dynamic sensitivity; Temporal analysis; Risk assessment

Ahmad Samer Wazan, David W Chadwick, Remi Venant, Eddie Billoir, Romain Laborde, Liza Ahmad, Mustafa Kaiiali,
RootAsRole: a security module to manage the administrative privileges for Linux,
Computers & Security,
2022,
102983,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2022.102983.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404822003753)
Abstract: Today, Linux users use sudo/su commands to attribute Linux’s administrative privileges to their programs. These commands always give the whole list of administrative privileges to Linux programs, unless there are pre-installed default policies defined by Linux Security Modules(LSM). LSM modules require users to inject the needed privileges into the memory of the process and to declare the needed privileges in an LSM policy. This approach can work for users who have good knowledge of the syntax of LSM modules’ policies. Adding or editing an existing policy is a very time-consuming process because LSM modules require adding a complete list of traditional permissions as well as administrative privileges. We propose a new Linux module called RootAsRole that is dedicated to the management of administrative privileges. RootAsRole is not proposed to replace LSM modules but to be used as a complementary module to manage Linux administrative privileges. RootAsRole allows Linux administrators to define a set of roles that contain the administrative privileges and restrict their usage to a set of users/groups and programs. Finally, we conduct an empirical performance study to compare RootAsRole tools with sudo/su commands to show that the overhead added by our module remains acceptable.
Keywords: Sudo/su; Linux capabilities,; Privilege escalation; Access control

Bharat Manral, Gaurav Somani,
Establishing forensics capabilities in the presence of superuser insider threats,
Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation,
Volume 38,
2021,
301263,
ISSN 2666-2817,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fsidi.2021.301263.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2666281721001803)
Abstract: Insider threats are paving ways to the headlines of security articles and reports across the globe. It's a common practice across organizations to have designated employees as administrators with complete administrative or superuser capabilities for the IT infrastructure. In this paper, we argue that superusers with all the administrative and access control capabilities may escape from the scrutiny of forensic investigation and may also become a major obstacle in the process of evidence collection. Through this work, we open a discussion on forensic aspects of insider threats with a particular focus on superuser forensics. We identify the anti-forensic administrative privileges of the superusers and discuss the sheer forensic repercussions with the help of four generic insider threat cases. As our primary contribution, we identify and define the four important requirements for a superuser-immune solution. These requirements include denying and logical access to the potential forensic artifacts, timely synchronization and integrity of evidential artifacts, and ensuring the execution of legitimate code/service and notification capabilities. Based on the identified requirements, we propose a forensic compliant mechanism, “Log-of-logs server” to countermeasure the inherent anti-forensic capabilities of the superuser. We showcase that the proposed framework effectively helps in establishing forensic capabilities for superusers. We also present the security analysis of our framework and discuss its forensic feasibility.
Keywords: Insider threats; Superuser; Insider threat forensics; Superuser forensics

Muhammad Zain Jan, Kafait Ullah, Faisal Abbas, Hassan Abdullah Khalid, Tariq M. Bajwa,
Barriers to the adoption of social welfare measures in the electricity tariff structure of developing countries: A case of Pakistan,
Energy Policy,
Volume 179,
2023,
113648,
ISSN 0301-4215,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enpol.2023.113648.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0301421523002331)
Abstract: Energy tariff plays an important role in ensuring affordable energy availability in a country. Various developed countries have incorporated social welfare indicators in their electricity tariff structures to support their lower-income groups. The developing countries, riddled with multifaceted challenges in their energy value chains have not taken care of access to affordable energy for the poor (SDG7). Existing literature on developing countries and Pakistan has not sufficiently highlighted the drivers of social welfare mechanisms in the electricity tariff structure for poor households. This study aims at examining the factors contributing to the decline in social welfare for electricity household consumers in Pakistan. The study has utilized a mixed analytical approach, incorporating NVIVO analysis and Q methodology. The results highlighted a lack of regulatory performance, political influence, suboptimal governance, and financial constraints as barriers to enhancing the residential consumer's social welfare in Pakistan. Our findings may help to devise and revise the policies such as power sector subsidies for the determination of better electricity tariffs for the poorer segment of society in Pakistan. Other developing countries may also benefit by improving the relevant policy circumstances (main barriers from this study) of the electricity subsidies for poor households.
Keywords: Social welfare; Tariff structure; Energy subsidies; Mixed-methods approach; Energy access; Developing countries

Julius Köpke, Giovanni Meroni, Mattia Salnitri,
Designing secure business processes for blockchains with SecBPMN2BC,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 141,
2023,
Pages 382-398,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2022.11.013.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X22003764)
Abstract: Collaborative business processes can be seen as smart contracts, as they are oftentimes adopted to express agreements among different organizations. Indeed, they provide mechanisms to formalize the obligations of each involved party. For instance, collaborative business processes can specify when a certain task should be executed, under which conditions a service should be offered to the other participants, and how physical objects and information should be manipulated. In this setting, to prevent misuse of smart contracts and services and information provided, it is paramount to guarantee by design that security requirements are fulfilled. With the rise in popularity of blockchains, several approaches exploiting the trusted smart contract execution environment offered by this technology to enforce collaborative business processes have been proposed. Yet, the complexity of business processes, security requirements, and blockchain applications calls for an engineering approach that guides the design of secure business processes. Such an approach should both take advantage of the possibilities offered by blockchain technology to enforce some security requirements (e.g., non-repudiation), and take into account the limitations blockchain poses for other security requirements (e.g., confidentiality). However, we are not aware of any existing work that aims at addressing such issues following a similar approach. In this article, we propose SecBPMN2BC: a model-driven approach to designing business processes with security requirements that are meant to be deployed on blockchains. SecBPMN2BC consists of: (i) an extension of BPMN 2.0 that allows designing secure smart contracts; (ii) a set of algorithms and their implementation that check incompatible security requirements and help the design of smart contracts; (iii) a workflow that guides the application of the method. The method has been validated with a survey conducted on security and BPMN experts.
Keywords: Blockchain; Model-driven engineering; Information systems; Security; Smart contracts; Business processes

Natalia Miloslavskaya, Svetlana Tolstaya,
Information Security Management Maturity Models,
Procedia Computer Science,
Volume 213,
2022,
Pages 49-57,
ISSN 1877-0509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2022.11.037.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050922017288)
Abstract: Several maturity models for organizations, their subsystems and processes, for example, information security (IS) incident management are known. Continuing our earlier analysis of the most common maturity models (MMs), models and approaches to assessing the maturity level (ML) of organization's IS management (ISM) maturity, namely The Bank of Russia's ISM MM, ISMS Maturity Capability Model, NIST's IS MM, Open Group's ISM MM, Gartner's Security and Risk Management ML assessment, IS Risk Management Process MM, Security Incident Management Models, and IS Monitoring MM, are selected for consideration within the framework of this research.
Keywords: maturity model; maturity level; maturity level assessment; information security management

Victor S. Maas, Huaxiang Yin,
Finding partners in crime? How transparency about managers’ behavior affects employee collusion,
Accounting, Organizations and Society,
Volume 96,
2022,
101293,
ISSN 0361-3682,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aos.2021.101293.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0361368221000714)
Abstract: In this paper, we investigate how increasing transparency about managers' treatment of their employees affects the tendency of employees to initiate collusion. Building on behavioral economics theory, we argue that employees who are treated less kindly by their managers are more willing to initiate or join a collusive agreement. We hypothesize that internal transparency affects collusion in two ways. First, by revealing how kindly employees are treated by their managers, transparency increases or decreases the probability that individuals are singled out as potential “partners in crime.” Second, increasing transparency incentivizes managers to treat employees more kindly, which in turn reduces employees’ inclination to initiate collusion. The results of two experiments generally support the theory. We discuss the implications of our study for research and practice.
Keywords: Collusion; Fraud; Internal transparency; Kindness; Reciprocity

Elena Surikova, Elena Kosorukova, Irina Krainova, Margarita Rasskazova,
Management of accounts receivable for railway transport enterprises,
Transportation Research Procedia,
Volume 63,
2022,
Pages 1790-1797,
ISSN 2352-1465,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trpro.2022.06.195.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352146522004501)
Abstract: The state of accounts receivable, its quality, size and structure have a significant impact on the financial position of the company as a whole, its solvency and fiscal sustainability. Management of accounts receivable is a series of measures aimed, ultimately, at optimizing its size and improving its structure quality. The enterprise tends to reduce terms of accounts receivable and decrease financial cycle size as much as possible but without harming its activity. The analysis of accounts receivable conducted on a regular basis using traditional and non-trivial approaches can judge on the ability of company management to foresee and reduce the risk of non-payback of funds, identify specific, inherent in a particular activity, factors of the debt formation and determine the overall quality of liability management. The article considers the key risks associated with the emergence of accounts receivable, terms of repayment, non-repayment in full or in part, and also discloses the features of accounts receivable management in a transport corporation.
Keywords: accounts receivable; management; risk; analysis; factoring; scoring; hedging; self-insurance; internal control; accounts receivable elasticity; management quality indicators

Mahendra Pratap Singh, Shamik Sural, Jaideep Vaidya, Vijayalakshmi Atluri,
Managing attribute-based access control policies in a unified framework using data warehousing and in-memory database,
Computers & Security,
Volume 86,
2019,
Pages 183-205,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2019.06.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404819301166)
Abstract: Over the last few years, various types of access control models have been proposed for expressing the growing needs of organizations. Out of these, there is an increasing interest towards specification and enforcement of flexible and dynamic decision making security policies using Attribute Based Access Control (ABAC). However, it is not easy to migrate an existing security policy specified in a different model into ABAC. Furthermore, there exists no comprehensive approach that can specify, enforce and manage ABAC policies along with other policies potentially already existing in the organization as a unified security policy. In this article, we present a unique and flexible solution that enables concurrent specification and enforcement of such security policies through storing and querying data in a multi-dimensional and multi-granular data model. Specifically, we present a unified database schema, similar to that traditionally used in data warehouse design, that can represent different types of access control policies and store relevant policies as in-memory data, thereby significantly reducing the execution time of access request evaluation. We also present a novel approach for combining multiple access control policies through meta-policies. For ease of management, an administrative schema is presented that can specify different types of administrative policies. Extensive experiments on a wide range of data sets demonstrate the viability of the proposed approach.
Keywords: Attribute Based Access Control; Meta-policy; Unified security policy; Authorization; In-memory database; Data warehousing

Sascha Kern, Thomas Baumer, Sebastian Groll, Ludwig Fuchs, Günther Pernul,
Optimization of Access Control Policies,
Journal of Information Security and Applications,
Volume 70,
2022,
103301,
ISSN 2214-2126,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jisa.2022.103301.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214212622001533)
Abstract: Organizations undertake complex and costly projects to model high-quality Access Control Policies (ACPs). Once built, these policies must be maintained and managed in an ongoing process to keep their quality high. Insufficient maintenance leads to inaccurate authorization decisions and increases the policies’ administrative effort and susceptibility to errors. While the initial modeling of ACPs has received significant research interest, their optimization is not yet covered as broadly. This work provides a theoretical foundation for ACP quality and its optimization. Furthermore, it analyzes how existing research addresses optimization of ACPs with regard to six crucial optimization dimensions. It presents a structured literature survey tracing these optimization dimensions, the contributed research artifact and data requirements. Building on this literature catalogue, this work elaborates on inaccuracies for user permission assignments, data availability, minimal perturbation and recommendation-based optimization.
Keywords: Access Management; Data quality; Policy optimization; Policy maintenance; Role-Based Access Control; Attribute-Based Access Control

Elena Graczová, Branislav Šulgan, Pavol Steltenpohl,
tert-Butanol–water mixture separation by extractive distillation: Application of experimental data in process simulations,
Separation and Purification Technology,
Volume 251,
2020,
116968,
ISSN 1383-5866,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.seppur.2020.116968.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1383586620314428)
Abstract: Effect of two solvents on the tert-butanol–water azeotropic mixture separation efficiency and economy has been studied. As solvents, two imidazolium ionic liquids (ILs), namely 1-ethyl-3-methylimidazolium bromide [EMim]Br and 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium bromide [BMim]Br, were selected. For the original diluted tert-butanol (TBA) mixture separation, a separation unit composed of pre-concentration and extractive distillation columns was proposed. Simulations of separation equipment were carried out based on the equilibrium stage model of a distillation column implemented in ASPEN+. Regarding phase equilibrium description, the original NRTL excess Gibbs energy equation was used for the components’ activity coefficients calculation. Phase equilibrium data of IL-containing binaries were measured experimentally in a broad range of ILs’ concentrations and original binary parameters of the NRTL equation were evaluated from these data. To avoid ILs decomposition, regeneration of extraction solvents, ILs, in a vacuum film evaporator was considered. The effect of temperature and pressure in the vacuum film evaporator on the purity of the recovered ILs was tested experimentally in laboratory equipment and the results were applied in separation unit design simulations. For the proposed separation unit, operation costs were evaluated using the ASPEN+ software. Influence of the state of feed entering the extractive distillation column on operation costs was also investigated. By replacing the total condenser at the pre-concentration column head for a partial one, overall operation costs of the separation unit were reduced by about 20%.
Keywords: tert-Butanol; Azeotropic mixture separation; Extractive distillation; Solvent regeneration; Imidazolium ionic liquids; Vacuum film evaporator

Shuai Chen, Li Zhang, Tao Qing,
A human reliability analysis methodology based on an extended Phoenix method for severe accidents in nuclear power plants: Qualitative analysis framework,
Reliability Engineering & System Safety,
Volume 214,
2021,
107750,
ISSN 0951-8320,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ress.2021.107750.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0951832021002805)
Abstract: The mitigation of the Fukushima accident exposed the detrimental action of human errors once again. However, deficiencies in existing human reliability analysis (HRA) methods prevent the effective prediction and analysis of potential human errors during the mitigation of severe accidents following core damage. To address this problem, this study presents a qualitative analysis framework for emergency response personnel (ERP) reliability analysis under severe accident conditions. This framework is developed using the Phoenix HRA method in conjunction with analyzing the ERP response characteristics and human-related issues from previous accidents, literature surveys, drill observations and interviews, as well as an assessment of the applicability of existing HRA methods. The analysis framework includes the establishment of an ERP response tree and a human failure fault tree (FT), as well as the identification and compilation of ERP cognitive functions, human error modes (HEMs), performance-influencing factors (PIFs), and the construction of Bayesian belief networks, to provide methodological guidance for the prevention of human errors under severe accident conditions.
Keywords: Human reliability analysis; Severe accident; Emergency response personnel; Phoenix methodology; Nuclear power plant

Jason Crampton, Gregory Gutin, Martin Koutecký, Rémi Watrigant,
Parameterized resiliency problems,
Theoretical Computer Science,
Volume 795,
2019,
Pages 478-491,
ISSN 0304-3975,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tcs.2019.08.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0304397519304918)
Abstract: We introduce an extension of decision problems called resiliency problems. In a resiliency problem, the goal is to decide whether an instance remains positive after any (appropriately defined) perturbation has been applied to it. To tackle these kinds of problems, some of which might be of practical interest, we introduce a notion of resiliency for Integer Linear Programs (ILP) and show how to use a result of Eisenbrand and Shmonin (Math. Oper. Res., 2008) on Parametric Linear Programming to prove that ILP Resiliency is fixed-parameter tractable (FPT) under a certain parameterization. To demonstrate the utility of our result, we consider natural resiliency variants of several concrete problems, and prove that they are FPT under natural parameterizations. Our first results concern a four-variate problem which generalizes the Disjoint Set Cover problem and which is of interest in access control. We obtain a complete parameterized complexity classification for every possible combination of the parameters. Then, we introduce and study a resiliency variant of the Closest String problem, for which we extend an FPT result of Gramm et al. (Algorithmica, 2003). We also consider problems in the fields of scheduling and social choice. We believe that many other problems can be tackled by our framework.
Keywords: Fixed parameter tractability; Access control; Parametric integer linear programming; Resiliency problems; Social choice theory; Computational biology

M.M. Aeorangajeb Al Hossain, Ichiro Yajima, Akira Tazaki, Huadong Xu, Md Saheduzzaman, Nobutaka Ohgami, Nazmul Ahsan, Anwarul Azim Akhand, Masashi Kato,
Chromium-mediated hyperpigmentation of skin in male tannery workers in Bangladesh,
Chemosphere,
Volume 229,
2019,
Pages 611-617,
ISSN 0045-6535,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chemosphere.2019.04.112.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045653519307659)
Abstract: Since tannery workers in developing countries are chronically exposed to high levels of chromium (Cr), there are serious concerns about health problems. However, there has been limited study in which Cr levels were measured in tannery workers, who are chronically exposed to Cr. Our preliminary inspection showed that there was hyperpigmented skin in tannery workers. We therefore investigated the correlation between skin pigmentation levels digitally evaluated as L* values by using a reflectance spectrophotometer and Cr levels in skin appendages in 100 male tannery workers and in 49 male non-tannery workers in Bangladesh. Digitalized skin pigmentation levels of the face and feet in addition to Cr levels in hair and toenails in tannery workers were significantly higher than those in non-tannery workers in our univariate analysis. Spearman's rank correlation coefficient analysis showed significant correlation between duration of tannery work (years) and Cr levels in hair (r = 0.62) and toenails (r = 0.61). Our multivariate analysis also showed that Cr levels in hair and toenails were significantly correlated with digitalized skin pigmentation levels of the face and feet in addition to duration of tannery work in all participants. Thus, our results showed the development of hyperpigmented skin in tannery workers. Our results also suggested that hyperpigmented skin could be a useful diagnostic marker for chronic exposure to Cr. Furthermore, cutaneous L* value might be a convenient marker for detection of chronic Cr poisoning, since the digitalized values enable objective evaluation of skin pigmented levels by general people as well as dermatologists.
Keywords: Tannery worker; Chromium exposure; L* value; Hyperpigmented skin; Diagnostic marker; Hazaribagh-Bangladesh

William L. Luyben,
Series versus parallel reboilers in distillation columns,
Chemical Engineering Research and Design,
Volume 133,
2018,
Pages 294-302,
ISSN 0263-8762,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cherd.2018.03.025.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0263876218301485)
Abstract: Multiple reboilers are used in distillation columns for several reasons such as implementing heat integration, intermediate reboilers, auxiliary reboilers and vapor recompression. If there is a single source of hot vapor to be used in multiple heat exchangers, the flowsheet can use either a series or a parallel arrangement, depending on the temperature levels of the heat sinks. The purpose of this paper is to point out that the series arrangement can present difficult control problems because of interaction between the units. In the parallel configuration, the heat transferred to each sink can be easily divorced from the others. In the series configuration, more complex methods must be used such as bypassing and flooding to adjust heat transfer in individual units. The controllability of the parallel configuration is demonstrated for a lower-partitioned divided-wall reactive distillation column with vapor recompression.
Keywords: Auxiliary reboilers; Heat integration; Vapor recompression

Nurit Gal-Oz, Yaron Gonen, Ehud Gudes,
Mining meaningful and rare roles from web application usage patterns,
Computers & Security,
Volume 82,
2019,
Pages 296-313,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2019.01.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404818301202)
Abstract: Role mining refers to the problem of discovering an optimal set of roles from existing user permissions. Most role mining algorithms, use the full set of user-permission assignments (UPA) as input, and generate a hierarchy of roles consistent with this UPA as output. While in some scenarios such as legacy systems or dynamic environments, the complete UPA is unknown, it can be partially inferred from actual web-application usage information. We may collect this information by monitoring users’ access to an application over a period of time. The limited time period makes the data collected a sample which is susceptible to noise pollution. Specifically, not all existing permissions may be reflected in the sample, and thus a subtractive noise is introduced. In previous work, we presented an algorithm which uses the session permission usage information and overcomes the inherent subtractive noise by eliminating roles with very little usage. However some roles are rare by nature, they are either defined for a very small group of users or contain permissions to data that are rarely used. In this paper we present an algorithm that distinguishes between noise and rare roles. Our method enables role mining while controlling the trade-off between a minimality criteria and the ability to discover rare roles. The algorithm is tested by a simulation based on a real-life role hierarchy, and its effectiveness is demonstrated through the identification of correct roles, even if rare, under different levels of noise.
Keywords: Data mining; Web-based services; Security; Integrity; Protection

Chris Steffen,
Should jump box servers be consigned to history?,
Network Security,
Volume 2017, Issue 11,
2017,
Pages 5-6,
ISSN 1353-4858,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-4858(17)30092-2.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353485817300922)
Abstract: Jump boxes have been utilised for decades to protect and isolate critical systems. The main purpose of the jump box is to act as a security guard at the entrance to the infrastructure. It checks the credentials of users approaching the gate, ensuring that only authorised users can log into the network environment and from there can safely get access to any of the other servers or boxes. Jump boxes have been used for decades to protect and isolate critical systems. However, even though they don't store sensitive data, they raise serious security concerns. With the growing popularity of hybrid ecosystems, where enterprises are transitioning to cloud-based infrastructure and incorporating third-party services and/or contractors, jump boxes become harder to implement effectively. A software-defined perimeter approach will not only solve jump box concerns, but will also strengthen security and compliance, explains Chris Steffen of Cyxtera.

Karen Yap, Yixin Xiao, Brad A. Friedman, H. Shawn Je, Eugene V. Makeyev,
Polarizing the Neuron through Sustained Co-expression of Alternatively Spliced Isoforms,
Cell Reports,
Volume 15, Issue 6,
2016,
Pages 1316-1328,
ISSN 2211-1247,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.celrep.2016.04.012.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2211124716304119)
Abstract: Summary
Alternative splicing (AS) is an important source of proteome diversity in eukaryotes. However, how this affects protein repertoires at a single-cell level remains an open question. Here, we show that many 3′-terminal exons are persistently co-expressed with their alternatives in mammalian neurons. In an important example of this scenario, cell polarity gene Cdc42, a combination of polypyrimidine tract-binding, protein-dependent, and constitutive splicing mechanisms ensures a halfway switch from the general (E7) to the neuron-specific (E6) alternative 3′-terminal exon during neuronal differentiation. Perturbing the nearly equimolar E6/E7 ratio in neurons results in defects in both axonal and dendritic compartments and suggests that Cdc42E7 is involved in axonogenesis, whereas Cdc42E6 is required for normal development of dendritic spines. Thus, co-expression of a precise blend of functionally distinct splice isoforms rather than a complete switch from one isoform to another underlies proper structural and functional polarization of neurons.

M. Arif Khan, Yusuf G. Adewuyi,
Techno-economic modeling and optimization of catalytic reactive distillation for the esterification reactions in bio-oil upgradation,
Chemical Engineering Research and Design,
Volume 148,
2019,
Pages 86-101,
ISSN 0263-8762,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cherd.2019.05.037.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0263876219302552)
Abstract: Equilibrium reactive distillation (RD) process simulation and economic evaluation were carried out for the esterification of complex mixtures of several fatty acids and water (representative of crude bio-oils) with n-butanol using Aspen PLUS process simulator and economic analyzer. Complete design and optimization were carried out using evolutionary techniques from simplest system to the most rigorous one with introduction of intermittent progressive complexity. Prior to distillation design, esterification reaction kinetics and binary/ternary interactions were analyzed using Aspen RGibbs reactor module and Property PLUS, respectively. Simple distillation column was designed and optimized to obtain the initial trial parameters to be used in RD simulation. UNIQUAC is used as base property method and reaction equilibria estimated by minimization of Gibbs free energy. Near atmospheric column pressure, reflux ratio of 0.95, distillate to feed ratio of 0.505 and total 18 stages were found to be optimum based on attainable reaction conversion, ester separation, heat duties, and capital and operating costs. The effects of n-butanol:acid feeding ratio and water percent in bio-oil and their relationship were also analyzed to predict n-butanol requirement. The results of this study, including the optimized parameters, could serve as design platforms for pyrolysis bio-oil upgradation to transportation fuels.
Keywords: Bio-oil; Esterification; Reactive distillation; Techno-economic modeling; Optimization

Javier Lopez, Juan E. Rubio,
Access control for cyber-physical systems interconnected to the cloud,
Computer Networks,
Volume 134,
2018,
Pages 46-54,
ISSN 1389-1286,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2018.01.037.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1389128618300501)
Abstract: The continuous advance in manufacturing and information analytics has improved the connectivity between computational and physical elements within the industry, hence increasing the effectiveness and reliability of Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS). This progress has been further enhanced by Cloud computing technologies, by externalizing services and interconnecting different industrial networks. As a consequence, there has been an increase of cyber-security threats in the industrial sector in recent years. Among other security measures, it is of paramount importance to introduce flexible access control mechanisms to avoid unauthorized access to the heterogeneous systems that coexist in this context. In this paper, we identify the requirements for such techniques, and propose a novel industrial architecture where multiple access control models are assessed when cloud technologies are integrated. In particular, we emphasize their adaptability to new heterogeneous scenarios through diverse indicators, achieving a trade-off between security and efficiency.
Keywords: Cyber; Physical; Systems; Cloud; Security; Access; Control

Weili Ge, Allison Koester, Sarah McVay,
Benefits and costs of Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404(b) exemption: Evidence from small firms’ internal control disclosures,
Journal of Accounting and Economics,
Volume 63, Issues 2–3,
2017,
Pages 358-384,
ISSN 0165-4101,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jacceco.2017.01.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165410117300113)
Abstract: We quantify measurable benefits and costs of exempting firms from auditor oversight of internal control effectiveness disclosures. We measure the benefit of exemption as an aggregate $388 million in audit fee savings from 2007–2014. The costs stem from internal control misreporting: an aggregate $719 million of lower operating performance due to non-remediation and a $935 million delay in aggregate market value decline due to the failure to disclose ineffective internal controls. The audit fee savings benefit shareholders of all exempt firms, whereas the costs are borne by shareholders of only a fraction of exempt firms (the internal control misreporters).
Keywords: Internal controls over financial reporting; Regulation; Disclosure accuracy; Non-accelerated filers; Section 404

Shantanu Pal, Michael Hitchens, Vijay Varadharajan, Tahiry Rabehaja,
Policy-based access control for constrained healthcare resources in the context of the Internet of Things,
Journal of Network and Computer Applications,
Volume 139,
2019,
Pages 57-74,
ISSN 1084-8045,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2019.04.013.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1084804519301377)
Abstract: The Internet of Things (IoT), smart sensors and mobile wearable devices are helping to provide healthcare systems that are more ubiquitous, smarter, faster and easily accessible to users. However, security is a significant concern for the IoT, with access control being one of the major issues. With the growing size and presence of these systems an important question is how to manage policies in a manner that is both scalable and flexible. In this paper, we propose an access control architecture for constrained healthcare resources in the IoT. Our policy-based approach provides fine-grained access for authorized users to services while protecting valuable resources from unauthorized access. We use a hybrid approach by employing attributes, roles and capabilities for our authorization design. We apply attributes for role membership assignment and in permission evaluation. Membership of roles grants capabilities. The capabilities which are issued may be parameterized based on further attributes of the user and are then used to access specific services provided by IoT devices. This significantly reduces the number of policies required for specifying access control settings. The proposed scheme is XACML driven. We have implemented a proof of concept prototype and provide a detailed performance analysis of the implementation. Evaluation results show that, our approach requires minimal additional overhead when compared to other proposals employing capabilities for access control in the IoT.
Keywords: Internet of things; Constrained resources; Healthcare systems; Access control; Policy management; Security

Antonio Celesti, Maria Fazio, Antonino Galletta, Lorenzo Carnevale, Jiafu Wan, Massimo Villari,
An approach for the secure management of hybrid cloud–edge environments,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 90,
2019,
Pages 1-19,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2018.06.043.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X18300682)
Abstract: The Cloud-of-Things (CoT) paradigm is a challenging approach to manage IoT applications exploiting Cloud resources and services. In order to avoid latency in Cloud–IoT communications, the management of time-sensitive services has to be moved to the edge of the CoT. To this aim, a secure Cloud-to-Edge environment for seamless management of IoT applications is necessary. The realization of a performing and secure Cloud-to-Edge middleware solution is a very strategic goal for future business CoT services. Thus, it needs to be deeply investigated, as highlighted by the Cloud Security Alliance (CSA). A valuable approach to develop an efficient Cloud-to-Edge system is based on an instant-message communication solution. In current Cloud environments, a Message Oriented Middleware (MOM) based on an Instant Message Protocol (IMP) provides good performance, but overlook security requirements. In this paper, we aim at overcoming such a gap following the CSA guidelines. In particular, we discuss the involved issues for improving such a kind of Cloud-to-Edge system in order to achieve data confidentiality, integrity, authenticity and non-repudiation. Moreover, we analyze a real case of study considering a MOM architectural model. Experimental results performed on a real testbed show how the introduced secure capabilities do not affect the overall performances of the whole middleware.
Keywords: Cloud computing; Edge computing; Management; Communication; Security

Paul John Steinbart, Robyn L. Raschke, Graham Gal, William N. Dilla,
The influence of a good relationship between the internal audit and information security functions on information security outcomes,
Accounting, Organizations and Society,
Volume 71,
2018,
Pages 15-29,
ISSN 0361-3682,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aos.2018.04.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0361368218302113)
Abstract: Given the increasing financial impact of cybercrime, it has become critical for companies to manage information security risk. The practitioner literature has long argued that the internal audit function (IAF) can play an important role both in providing assurance with respect to information security and in generating insights about how to improve the organization's information security. Nevertheless, there is scant empirical evidence to support this belief. Using a unique data set, this study examines how the quality of the relationship between the internal audit and the information security functions affects objective measures of the overall effectiveness of an organization's information security efforts. The quality of this relationship has a positive effect on the number of reported internal control weaknesses and incidents of noncompliance, as well as on the numbers of security incidents detected, both before and after they caused material harm to the organization. In addition, we find that higher levels of management support for information security and having the chief information security officer (CISO) report independently of the IT function have a positive effect on the quality of the relationship between the internal audit and information security functions.
Keywords: Information security; Internal audit; IT audit; Governance; Risk management; Security metrics

Barsha Mitra, Shamik Sural, Jaideep Vaidya, Vijayalakshmi Atluri,
Mining temporal roles using many-valued concepts,
Computers & Security,
Volume 60,
2016,
Pages 79-94,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2016.04.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404816300335)
Abstract: Many of today's access control policies are associated with temporal restrictions. Under temporal role-based access control (TRBAC), roles have an associated temporal component, which allows them to better encapsulate such temporal access control policies. However, given their complexity, TRBAC systems can only be well managed if the set of roles is correctly defined. The process of deriving an optimal set of such roles is known as temporal role mining. In this paper, we formally define the temporal role mining problem (TRMP) in the form of a matrix decomposition problem, by introducing a new operator that multiplies a set with a Boolean value and redefining existing matrix multiplication operations in terms of it. We also define a new metric for temporal role mining, called cumulative overhead of temporal roles and permissions (CO-TRAP), which takes into consideration the administrative effort required for managing the resulting TRBAC system. Since TRMP as well as minimization of CO-TRAP are NP-complete problems, we propose two greedy algorithms based on many-valued concepts. Experimental evaluation on a number of real-world datasets shows that the proposed approach is both efficient and effective.
Keywords: TRBAC; Temporal role mining; Many-valued concept; Matrix decomposition; Access control

Andrea Burattin, Fabrizio M. Maggi, Alessandro Sperduti,
Conformance checking based on multi-perspective declarative process models,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 65,
2016,
Pages 194-211,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2016.08.040.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417416304390)
Abstract: Process mining is a family of techniques that aim at analyzing business process execution data recorded in event logs. Conformance checking is a branch of this discipline embracing approaches for verifying whether the behavior of a process, as recorded in a log, is in line with some expected behavior provided in the form of a process model. Recently, techniques for conformance checking based on declarative specifications have been developed. Such specifications are suitable to describe processes characterized by high variability. However, an open challenge in the context of conformance checking with declarative models is the capability of supporting multi-perspective specifications. This means that declarative models used for conformance checking should not only describe the process behavior from the control flow point of view, but also from other perspectives like data or time. In this paper, we close this gap by presenting an approach for conformance checking based on MP-Declare, a multi-perspective version of the declarative process modeling language Declare. The approach has been implemented in the process mining tool ProM and has been experimented using artificial and real-life event logs.
Keywords: Process mining; Conformance checking; Linear temporal logic; Business constraints; Declare

Roel Boomsma, Brendan O'Dwyer,
Constituting the governable NGO: The correlation between conduct and counter-conduct in the evolution of funder-NGO accountability relations,
Accounting, Organizations and Society,
Volume 72,
2019,
Pages 1-20,
ISSN 0361-3682,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aos.2018.05.012.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0361368218303052)
Abstract: This paper mobilises a governmentality framing drawing on Miller and Rose (1990) and Rose and Miller (1992) to examine how fluctuating rationalities and programmes of government shaped the construction of accountability over several decades in the relationship between Dutch development NGOs and their governmental funder. It unveils a dynamic, mutually constitutive interrelationship between an assortment of NGO accountability technologies and the shifting rationalities and programmes that underpinned their emergence and adoption. We show how a rationale idealising improved NGO accountability through quality improvement underwent constant modification in a context where programmes seeking to facilitate this ideal were congenitally failing and continually altered. Within these efforts to shape the conduct of NGOs we call attention to the constitutive role of NGO ‘counter-conduct’ – conduct by NGOs motivated by a desire to be governed differently (Foucault, 2007). We uncover what Foucault (2007) refers to as the “correlation between conduct and counter-conduct” (p. 196) in the process through which accountability technologies were mutually moulded in the interactions between NGOs and their governmental funder; a correlation frequently overlooked in analyses of governmentality. We unearth five interrelated forms of NGO counter-conduct - associating self-governance with good governance; concentrating engagement at the programmatic level; pre-emption; ‘working around’ core programmatic aims; and aligning the ‘rules of competition’ with existing expertise. We illustrate how this counter-conduct was initially, albeit not ultimately, constitutive of governmentality as it stimulated shifts towards programmatic aims of cost consciousness, increased professionalisation, and enhanced NGO cooperation. Within this process, the creation of competition for funding among NGOs emerged as an objective of accountability thereby offering a counterpoint to prior research which frequently perceives competition for funding as an explanation for increased attention to NGO accountability.

Rana Elgendy, Amr Morad, Hicham G. Elmongui, Ayman Khalafallah, Mohamed S. Abougabal,
Role-task conditional-purpose policy model for privacy preserving data publishing,
Alexandria Engineering Journal,
Volume 56, Issue 4,
2017,
Pages 459-468,
ISSN 1110-0168,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aej.2017.05.029.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S111001681730193X)
Abstract: Privacy becomes a major concern for both consumers and enterprises; therefore many research efforts have been devoted to the development of privacy preserving technology. The challenge in data privacy is to share the data while assuring the protection of personal information. Data privacy includes assuring protection for both insider ad outsider threats even if the data is published. Access control can help to protect the data from outsider threats. Access control is defined as the process of mediating every request to resources and data maintained by a system and determining whether the request should be granted or denied. This can be enforced by a mechanism implementing regulations established by a security policy. In this paper, we present privacy preserving data publishing model based on integration of CPBAC, MD-TRBAC, PBFW, protection against database administrator technique inspired from oracle vault technique and benefits of anonymization technique to protect data when being published using k-anonymity. The proposed model meets the requirements of workflow and non-workflow system in enterprise environment. It is based on the characteristics of the conditional purposes, conditional roles, tasks, and policies. It guarantees the protection against insider threats such as database administrator. Finally it assures needed protection in case of publishing the data.
Keywords: Database security; Access control; Data publishing; Anonymization

Elisa Villani, Einar Rasmussen, Rosa Grimaldi,
How intermediary organizations facilitate university–industry technology transfer: A proximity approach,
Technological Forecasting and Social Change,
Volume 114,
2017,
Pages 86-102,
ISSN 0040-1625,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2016.06.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0040162516301111)
Abstract: The literature on university–industry (U–I) links has revealed many barriers that impede U–I technology transfer. A growing number of intermediary organizations, such as Technology Transfer Offices (TTOs), University Incubators (UIs), and Collaborative Research Centres (CRCs) have been established to mitigate such barriers. While the activities and effects of such intermediaries are frequently studied, conceptual understandings of how these organizations facilitate technology transfer are lacking. Our case study of nine Italian intermediary organizations shows that different types of intermediary organizations address the same fundamental issue of bridging the different logics of academia and industry in different ways. Based on a proximity approach, we develop a theoretical framework explaining how intermediary organizations can reduce cognitive, geographical, organizational, and social distance in U–I collaborations. Intermediary organizations address different proximity dimensions depending on the prior experience of academic and industrial actors and the nature of the knowledge that is transferred. In particular, TTOs focus more on improving cognitive and organizational dimensions, whereas UIs and CRCs attempt to reduce social and geographical distance.
Keywords: Collaborative research centres; Proximity dimensions; Technology transfer; Technology transfer offices; University incubators; University–industry collaboration

Muhammad Asif Habib, Mudassar Ahmad, Sohail Jabbar, Shehzad Khalid, Junaid Chaudhry, Kashif Saleem, Joel J.P. C. Rodrigues, Muhammad Sayim Khalil,
Security and privacy based access control model for internet of connected vehicles,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 97,
2019,
Pages 687-696,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2019.02.029.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X1831656X)
Abstract: Vehicular networks are continually gaining popularity, owing to the evolution of the Internet of things, by means of rapid communication in IP-based networks. Vehicles are being fitted with sensory devices to gain inputs from the external environment for information processing. Numerous applications of vehicular networks depend on the use of communication networks. The security and privacy of data communication are significant challenges, particularly in wireless applications, for example, the Internet of connected vehicles. When an official fleet of vehicles (government or military) begins its journey, the vehicles need to communicate with one another to share sensitive information. The security of such a fleet is maintained in various security layers, each of which coordinates and communicates with the others, but avoids disclosing sensitive information of higher security layers to lower security layers. No such access control model exists that can enforce the authority of security officials in layers. We propose a novel security and privacy based access control (SPBAC) model for the Internet of connected vehicles, which allows security officials to access information in combination with permissions and roles, instead of roles only, for officials traveling in vehicles belonging to the same fleet. Vehicle-to-vehicle communication is performed with the aid of onboard unit sensory devices. The vehicles can also communicate through wireless technology, namely WiFi and cellular communications (4G/5G). The SPBAC model provides communication among security layers in a secure, private, and efficient manner compared to other state-of-the-art algorithms. The SPBAC model is demonstrated here using mathematical modeling along with implementation examples.
Keywords: Secure IoT vehicles; Privacy-based vehicular networks; Cybersecurity; Privacy; Access control; Internet of vehicles

Zezhi Wu, Xingyuan Chen, Xuehui Du, Zhi Yang,
CDroid: practically implementation a formal-analyzed CIFC model on Android,
Computers & Security,
Volume 78,
2018,
Pages 231-244,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2018.07.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404818307776)
Abstract: Decentralized information flow control (DIFC) operating systems provide mechanisms for applications to handle the secrecy and integrity of their data by themselves. DIFC adapts to the distributed systems well, but not for the centralized authorization systems where an administrator manages all the privileges. For example, Android is full of untrusted third-party applications. A phone user may want to specify what kind of application can deal with what kind of private data by enforcing information flow control. To address this, we proposed a novel formal-described and security-proofed centralized information flow control (CIFC) model. In CIFC, taint tag of private data and capability label of applications are designed to support fine-grained and user-defined information flow control. Differs from DIFC and classic information flow control models, CIFC model controls information flow according to the relation between tag and label rather than the relation between two labels of applications. We use Value-passing Security Process Algebra (VSPA) to clarify the formal semantics of CIFC model. The verification of system equivalence proves that the model guarantees the noninterference security property in virtue of Checker of Persistent Security (CoPS) tool. We also implemented CDroid, a prototype of the CIFC model which can track and control information flow at runtime. CDroid is demonstrated to be an accurate system to achieve the security goal through several function test experiments. Furthermore, CDroid has 5% lead in memory consumption and 17% overhead of runtime performance compared to Android.
Keywords: Android; Information flow control; Security process algebra; Dynamic taint tracking; Noninterference

Shaojie Xu, Yong He, Guangshi Fu, Fanbo Dai, Yanwei Zhang, Zhihua Wang,
Effect of iodine precipitation on HI separation subsection in sulfur-iodine cycle for hydrogen production,
International Journal of Hydrogen Energy,
Volume 43, Issue 24,
2018,
Pages 10896-10904,
ISSN 0360-3199,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2018.05.013.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360319918314770)
Abstract: As a critical subsection in the sulfur-iodine (SI) thermochemical cycle, HI concentration and separation must cope with the pseudo-azeotropy of HIx (HI-I2-H2O) and excess iodine in HIx solution. Although electro-electrodialysis (EED) coupled with conventional distillation is a validated method of HI separation from HIx solution in the SI process, the iodine deposition, resulting from changes in temperature and HI molality in HIx solution, can lead clogged flow channels of the EED anode and other tubes. A precipitator can address this problem by recovering excess iodine from HIx solution after the HIx purification column. The energy duty and required input flow rate per mole HI was investigated in this study using a process flowsheet simulation. A decrease in iodine concentration in the streams to EED could reduce cell duty effectively. An increase in HI molality in the EED cathode outlet resulted in an increase in EED duty; however, the amplitude was slight. The iodine molar concentration in the feed of the distillation column exhibited an appreciable influence on the distillation duty. However, with an increase in distillation column pressure, the effect of diminished iodine in feed on the HI distillate duty continued to decline. To assess the utilization of an iodine precipitator in the HI separation subsection, the energy demands and required input flow rates of three different flowsheets were calculated using Aspen Plus and Microsoft Office Excel. Results indicated that the flowsheet that only recovered iodine in the stream to the EED anode chamber exhibited the least HI separation duty and the lowest required input flow rate.
Keywords: Sulfur-iodine cycle; Hydrogen production; HI separation; Iodine precipitation; Heat duty

Cheng Chang, Ligang He, Nadeem Chaudhary, Songling Fu, Hao Chen, Jianhua Sun, Kenli Li, Zhangjie Fu, Ming-Liang Xu,
Performance analysis and optimization for workflow authorization,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 67,
2017,
Pages 194-205,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2016.09.011.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X16303089)
Abstract: Many workflow management systems have been developed to enhance the performance of workflow executions. The authorization policies deployed in the system may restrict the task executions. The common authorization constraints include role constraints, Separation of Duty (SoD), Binding of Duty (BoD) and temporal constraints. This paper presents the methods to check the feasibility of these constraints, and also determines the time durations when the temporal constraints will not impose negative impact on performance. Further, this paper presents an optimal authorization method, which is optimal in the sense that it can minimize a workflow’s delay caused by the temporal constraints. The authorization analysis methods are also extended to analyze the stochastic workflows, in which the tasks’ execution times are not known exactly, but follow certain probability distributions. Simulation experiments have been conducted to verify the effectiveness of the proposed authorization methods. The experimental results show that comparing with the intuitive authorization method, the optimal authorization method can reduce the delay caused by the authorization constraints and consequently reduce the workflows’ response time.
Keywords: Workflow; Task execution; Authorization; Performance analysis

Jian Kang, Dan Lin, Wei Jiang, Elisa Bertino,
Highly efficient randomized authentication in VANETs,
Pervasive and Mobile Computing,
Volume 44,
2018,
Pages 31-44,
ISSN 1574-1192,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pmcj.2018.01.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1574119217303401)
Abstract: Considering the huge number of vehicles on the roads, Vehicular Ad-hoc Networks (VANETs) are envisioned to foster a variety of new applications ranging from road safety enhancement to mobile entertainment. These new VANET applications all face a critical challenge which is to ensure the identity and location privacy of vehicles’ owners who participate in such ad-hoc network. In this paper, we propose a highly efficient randomized authentication protocol that leverages homomorphic encryption to allow each individual vehicle to self-generate any number of authenticated identities to achieve full anonymity in VANETs. The proposed protocol prevents vehicles from being tracked by any single party including peer vehicles, service providers, authentication servers, and other infrastructure. Meanwhile, our protocol also provides traceability in case of any dispute. We have conducted both security analysis and experimental study which demonstrates the superiority of our protocol compared to other existing works.
Keywords: VANET; Authentication; Traceability; Privacy

Gang Liu, Runnan Zhang, Huimin Song, Can Wang, Jinhui Liu, Aijun Liu,
Ts-RBAC: A RBAC model with transformation,
Computers & Security,
Volume 60,
2016,
Pages 52-61,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2016.03.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404816300281)
Abstract: The traditional role-based access control (RBAC) model is typically static, i.e., permissions are granted based on a policy that seldom changes. A more flexible support for access control is needed in certain scenarios (such as disaster management). The break the glass RBAC (BTG-RBAC) model is an RBAC model with the break-glass technique, which enables the violation of a predetermined policy in exceptional situations. However, the BTG-RBAC model is unable to provide adequate flexibility in the system. This paper proposes a new independent mechanism, termed transformation, which can change the user assignment to achieve dynamic changes in user permissions. The system should alert users when their permission is changed. Thus, this study integrates transformation with the BTG-RBAC model to create a new model called the Ts-RBAC model. The Ts-RBAC model maintains the safety ensured by the BTG-RBAC model and improves the flexibility of the system.
Keywords: RBAC model; BTG-RBAC model; Transformation; User assignment; User permissions

Lu Zhou, Chunhua Su, Zhen Li, Zhe Liu, Gerhard P. Hancke,
Automatic fine-grained access control in SCADA by machine learning,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 93,
2019,
Pages 548-559,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2018.04.043.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X17325761)
Abstract: The access control is one of the core technique to ensure safety and privacy of the sensing data in information systems. Supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) is a very security primitives in control system architecture that are being applied to computers, networked data communications and graphical user interfaces for high-level process supervisory management. SCADA infrastructure which is an essential part of metro systems have been studied by many researchers in recent years. In this paper, We introduce several access control techniques such as Role-Based Access Control (RBAC), Attribute-Based Access Control (ABAC), Fine-Grained Access Control (FGAC). Brief literature review is provided, and possible improvements over the state-of-the-art access control techniques are also proposed. Specially, the machine learning techniques is introduced, which is potential to automate the tedious role engineering process.
Keywords: Supervisory control; Data acquisition; Access control; Information security

Salem Alhababsah,
Ownership structure and audit quality: An empirical analysis considering ownership types in Jordan,
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation,
Volume 35,
2019,
Pages 71-84,
ISSN 1061-9518,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.intaccaudtax.2019.05.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1061951819301016)
Abstract: This study provides up-to-date evidence concerning the different corporate ownership types and their effect on audit quality in Jordan, and by extension to other developing countries with similar institutional environments. Different types of shareholders have different investment policies and targets, which affects how they exercise their monitoring role over the investee firms. However, the literature suffers from a tight focus on overall ownership concentration, with less attention to identities of the shareholders. This focus motivates the study to go further and test whether the demand for audit quality varies across different ownership identities. This study sheds light on this relationship in one of the developing countries where investor protection is relatively weak and overall regulations remain underdeveloped. To obtain robust results, the study employs different estimation methods and scales audit fees according to firm size in order to reduce spurious correlations and heterogeneity of variance due to firm size. The results show the importance of family, banks, and government ownership in ensuring high audit quality. Conversely, ownership by non-financial institutions and foreigners does not affect audit quality. Beyond its contribution to the literature, this study offers useful feedback for regulatory bodies to consider ownership types during their deliberations, assists investors in making better-informed decisions, and benefits other interested parties in gaining a better understanding of the role played by ownership structure in audit quality. This feedback can also apply to other countries with ownership structures and regulatory frameworks similar to those in Jordan.
Keywords: Audit quality; Ownership structure; Family ownership; Foreign ownership; Government ownership; Institution ownership; Jordan

Aminah Abdullah, Iqbal Khadaroo, Christopher J. Napier,
Managing the performance of arts organisations: Pursuing heterogeneous objectives in an era of austerity,
The British Accounting Review,
Volume 50, Issue 2,
2018,
Pages 174-184,
ISSN 0890-8389,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bar.2017.10.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0890838917300616)
Abstract: This study provides insight into how two national arts organisations located in London manage their performance in the pursuit of heterogeneous objectives, within the confines of external influences. These organisations significantly rely on the government for funding and are therefore required to implement policy initiatives, albeit at arm's length from the government. Performance management systems (PMSs) were primarily designed to enable trustees to discharge their statutory duties of collecting, preserving, and displaying objects and works of arts, which were reflected in a management agreement containing the government's strategic priorities. The findings show that the changing politico-economic climate has subtly started to change values, accountability relationships and realities in the field of arts and culture. Whilst arts organisations emphasised socio-cultural objectives in strategic planning and operational processes, external pressures arising from austerity have subtly started to displace socio-cultural values. Business language, vocabularies, and tools commonly used in the private sector are insidiously taking root in arts organisations. Austerity provided a signal to executives that the survival of their core activities was at stake, and they have to engage in income generating activities to support their core activities.
Keywords: Performance management; Control; Museums; Art galleries; Austerity

Luigi Coppolino, Salvatore D’Antonio, Giovanni Mazzeo, Luigi Romano,
Cloud security: Emerging threats and current solutions,
Computers & Electrical Engineering,
Volume 59,
2017,
Pages 126-140,
ISSN 0045-7906,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2016.03.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045790616300544)
Abstract: Many organizations are stuck in the cloudify or not to cloudify limbo, mainly due to concerns related to the security of enterprise sensitive data. Removing this barrier is a key pre-condition to fully unleash the tremendous potential of cloud computing. In this paper, we provide a comprehensive analysis of the main threats that hamper cloud computing adoption on a wide scale, and a right to the point review of the solutions that are currently being provided by the major vendors. The paper also presents the (near) future directions of cloud security research, by taking a snapshot of the main research trends and most accredited approaches. The study is done on a best of breed selection of proprietary and Open Source cloud offerings. The paper is thus a useful navigation tool, that can be used by the IT personnel to gain more insight into the security risks related to the use of cloud computing, as well as to quickly weigh the pros and cons of state of the art solutions.
Keywords: Cloud computing security; Security techniques; Intel SGX; Homomorphic cryptography; Cloud platforms

Keshnee Padayachee,
An assessment of opportunity-reducing techniques in information security: An insider threat perspective,
Decision Support Systems,
Volume 92,
2016,
Pages 47-56,
ISSN 0167-9236,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dss.2016.09.012.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167923616301610)
Abstract: This paper presents an evaluation of extant opportunity-reducing techniques employed to mitigate insider threats. Although both motive and opportunity are required to commit maleficence, this paper focuses on the concept of opportunity. Opportunity is more tangible than motive; hence it is more pragmatic to reflect on opportunity-reducing measures. To this end, opportunity theories from the field of criminology are considered. The exploratory evaluation proffers several areas of research and may assist organizations in implementing opportunity-reducing information security controls to mitigate insider threats. The evaluation is not definitive, but serves to inform future understanding.
Keywords: Insider threat; Situational Crime Prevention theory; Cybercrime; Delphi technique

Stefan Schönig, Cristina Cabanillas, Stefan Jablonski, Jan Mendling,
A framework for efficiently mining the organisational perspective of business processes,
Decision Support Systems,
Volume 89,
2016,
Pages 87-97,
ISSN 0167-9236,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dss.2016.06.012.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016792361630104X)
Abstract: Process mining aims at discovering processes by extracting knowledge from event logs. Such knowledge may refer to different business process perspectives. The organisational perspective deals, among other things, with the assignment of human resources to process activities. Information about the resources that are involved in process activities can be mined from event logs in order to discover resource assignment conditions, which is valuable for process analysis and redesign. Prior process mining approaches in this context present one of the following issues: (i) they are limited to discovering a restricted set of resource assignment conditions; (ii) they do not aim at providing efficient solutions; or (iii) the discovered process models are difficult to read due to the number of assignment conditions included. In this paper we address these problems and develop an efficient and effective process mining framework that provides extensive support for the discovery of patterns related to resource assignment. The framework is validated in terms of performance and applicability.
Keywords: Business process management; Declarative process mining; Event log analysis; Organisational perspective; Resource perspective

Steven Mertens, Frederik Gailly, Geert Poels,
Towards a decision-aware declarative process modeling language for knowledge-intensive processes,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 87,
2017,
Pages 316-334,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2017.06.024.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417417304414)
Abstract: Modeling loosely framed and knowledge-intensive business processes with the currently available process modeling languages is very challenging. Some lack the flexibility to model this type of processes, while others are missing one or more perspectives needed to add the necessary level of detail to the models. In this paper we have composed a list of requirements that a modeling language should fulfil in order to adequately support the modeling of this type of processes. Based on these requirements, a metamodel for a new modeling language was developed that satisfies them all. The new language, called DeciClare, incorporates parts of several existing modeling languages, integrating them with new solutions to requirements that had not yet been met. Deciclare is a declarative modeling language at its core, and therefore, can inherently deal with the flexibility required to model loosely framed processes. The complementary resource and data perspectives add the capability to reason about, respectively, resources and data values. The latter makes it possible to encapsulate the knowledge that governs the process flow by offering support for decision modeling. The abstract syntax of DeciClare has been implemented in the form of an Ecore model. Based on this implementation, the language-domain appropriateness of the language was validated by domain experts using the arm fracture case as application scenario.
Keywords: Business process management; Loosely framed processes; Knowledge-intensive processes; Declarative process modeling; Decision modeling; Resource reasoning

Zecheng Li, Li Liao, Hareton Leung, Bixin Li, Chao Li,
Evaluating the credibility of cloud services,
Computers & Electrical Engineering,
Volume 58,
2017,
Pages 161-175,
ISSN 0045-7906,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2016.05.014.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045790616301471)
Abstract: Cloud computing has received wide attention from both industry and academia since it was proposed in the last century. However, due to the open environment and centralized organizational structure, it is more difficult to build trust relationships between users and cloud services. In this paper, a model is proposed to evaluate the credibility of cloud services based on multi factors. The trust evidence, the scene and time were classified as service credibility impact factors. A simulation on the Netlogo platform was performed and the results showed that the proposed model can effectively reflect the user’s personal preferences, combine various type of evidences, and control the adverse effects caused by the updating events.
Keywords: Cloud computing; Credibility evaluation; Trust evidence; Personal preference

Yunsen Wang, Alexander Kogan,
Designing confidentiality-preserving Blockchain-based transaction processing systems,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 30,
2018,
Pages 1-18,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2018.06.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089518300794)
Abstract: Blockchain is one of the most disruptive and promising emerging technologies, and it appears to have the potential for significantly affecting the accounting and auditing fields. Using blockchain technology, zero-knowledge proof, and homomorphic encryption, this paper presents a design for a blockchain-based transaction processing system (TPS) and develops a prototype to demonstrate the functionality of the blockchain-based TPS in real-time accounting, continuous monitoring and fraud prevention. The computational performance of a blockchain-based TPS versus relational databases is evaluated and discussed. In anticipation of the wider applicability of blockchain technology to support enterprise information systems and continuous monitoring systems, this paper presents an innovative design that utilizes the advantages of blockchain technology while overcoming some of the key barriers to its adoption.
Keywords: Blockchain; Transaction processing systems; Continuous monitoring; Information confidentiality

Jacob Mugumbate, Mel Gray,
Individual resilience as a strategy to counter employment barriers for people with epilepsy in Zimbabwe,
Epilepsy & Behavior,
Volume 74,
2017,
Pages 154-160,
ISSN 1525-5050,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.yebeh.2017.06.018.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1525505017300203)
Abstract: Understanding individual resilience helps to improve employment opportunities of people with epilepsy. This is significant because, in Zimbabwe, as in many other countries in the Global South, people with epilepsy encounter several barriers in a context of less-than-ideal public services. Despite this disadvantage, some people with epilepsy have better employment outcomes for reasons including level of seizure control, social background, employment support services, and individual resilience. This article reports on data from participants (n=8), who were part of a larger study (n=30) on employment experiences of people with epilepsy in Harare. The study used in-depth interviews with the participants, who were all service users and members of the Epilepsy Support Foundation (ESF) in Harare. The eight resilient participants comprised four males and four females aged between 26-48years, who were selected because, unlike the remaining 22 participants, they had overcome chronic unemployment. Seven of the eight participants were employed, while one had recently become unemployed. Views of service providers (n=7) were sought on the experiences of people with epilepsy through a focus group discussion. The service providers included two health workers, three social service workers, and two disability advocacy workers. Data were analysed using NVivo, a computer-assisted qualitative data analysis package. The study found that participants experienced barriers, such as a lack of medical treatment, yet this was important for education and training, lack of finances for training, and negative attitudes at workplaces. Despite these barriers, participants had overcome chronic unemployment due to their individual resilience characterised by: (i) a ‘fighting spirit’, (ii) being their own advocates, and (iii) having a mastery over, and acceptance of, their epilepsy. The research concluded that, where people with epilepsy faced barriers, as in Zimbabwe, individual resilience acted as a strong coping mechanism that resulted in better employment outcomes. This suggested service providers should strengthen resilience-building initiatives and make them more accessible to people with epilepsy. However, this is only a coping mechanism that should not stop service providers and service users from advocating for government-provided employment services.
Keywords: Epilepsy; Individual resilience; Employment; Zimbabwe

Xu-dong Ji, Wei Lu, Wen Qu,
Voluntary Disclosure of Internal Control Weakness and Earnings Quality: Evidence From China,
The International Journal of Accounting,
Volume 52, Issue 1,
2017,
Pages 27-44,
ISSN 0020-7063,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.intacc.2017.01.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020706317300262)
Abstract: Using a sample of 1059 listed firms that voluntarily provide internal control reports in the period 2010–2011, this paper investigates the relationship between voluntary disclosure of internal control weaknesses (ICWs) and earnings quality in China. Our results show that earnings quality, measured by absolute discretionary accruals, is significantly associated with voluntary disclosure of ICWs. Furthermore, our results demonstrate that both accounting-related and non-accounting-related ICWs affect earnings quality. This study contributes to the internal control literature by extending the evidence for ICW disclosure to an emerging economy and examining the impact of disclosure of different types of ICWs on earnings quality. This study demonstrates that the control of non-accounting-related ICWs is critical for enterprise risk management.
Keywords: Internal control weakness; China; Types of ICWs; Earnings quality

Dan Lin, Nicholas Hilbert, Christian Storer, Wei Jiang, Jianping Fan,
UFace: Your universal password that no one can see,
Computers & Security,
Volume 77,
2018,
Pages 627-641,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2017.09.016.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404817302067)
Abstract: Due to the ease of use, face authentication could be a promising way to replace hard-to-remember passwords to access web services. However, to make face authentication suitable for web services, there are still several critical security and privacy challenges unaddressed. First, the existing authentication servers typically collect the plaintext of users' facial images in order to conduct authentication. If the servers are compromised, the attackers would obtain the users' facial images and can easily impersonate the users in any other applications that use face authentication. Second, it is also hard to prevent attackers from using facial images published in social network sites to impersonate the true user. In this paper, we conquered these two issues by proposing a novel secure face authentication system, called UFace. UFace uses special close-up facial images (which cannot be found online) for authentication. To further ensure the confidentiality of these close-up images, UFace guarantees that these images are only stored at user side and the servers have not any plaintext of these images. The face authentication is conducted securely with two collaborative authentication servers. UFace was implemented through both an Android application and multiple server side programs which were then evaluated in a real setting. The experimental results demonstrate that the UFace system can accurately authenticate users within a few seconds.
Keywords: Face authentication; Privacy preservation; Android application; Secure multi-party computation; Impersonation attack

Pierluigi Zerbino, Davide Aloini, Riccardo Dulmin, Valeria Mininno,
Process-mining-enabled audit of information systems: Methodology and an application,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 110,
2018,
Pages 80-92,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2018.05.030.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417418303300)
Abstract: Current methodologies for Information Systems (ISs) audits suffer from some limitations that could question the effectiveness of such procedures in detecting deviations, frauds, or abuses. Process Mining (PM), a set of business-process-related diagnostic and improvement techniques, can tackle these weaknesses, but literature lacks contributions that address this possibility concretely. Thus, by framing PM as an Expert System (ES) engine, this paper presents a five-step PM-based methodology for IS audits and validates it through a case in a freight export port process managed by a Port Community System (PCS), an open electronic platform enabling information exchange among port stakeholders. The validation pointed out some advantages (e.g. depth of analysis, easier automation, less invasiveness) of our PM-enabled methodology over extant ESs and tools for IS audit. The substantive test and the check on the PCS processing controls and output controls allowed to identify four major non-conformances likely implying both legal and operational risks, and two unforeseen process deviations that were not known by the port authority, but that could improve the flexibility of the process. These outcomes set the stage for an export process reengineering, and for revising the boundaries in the process flow of the PCS.
Keywords: Information systems audit; Error detection; Process mining; Business process management (BPM); Risk management; Port community system (PCS)

Godfrey Maringira, Tinashe Nyamunda,
Duty versus agency in the security state of Zimbabwe: Soldiers’ deployment in Chiadzwa diamond mining,
The Extractive Industries and Society,
Volume 4, Issue 1,
2017,
Pages 172-179,
ISSN 2214-790X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.exis.2016.12.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214790X16301629)
Abstract: The deployment of soldiers’ in diamond mining areas in Zimbabwe is beginning to receive much scholarly attention, partly because scholars researching on such issues are mainly driven by the meta-narratives of ‘artisanal miners’, popularly known as “magweja” in the Zimbabwean context. In many cases soldiers are presented as perpetrators of violence within deployed areas, with “magweja” and villagers, as victims of military deployment. While this is not untrue, this article explores the ways in which soldiers developed mutual relationships with “magweja”, friendships and interactions with villagers, including sexual relationships in the communities surrounding the diamond area. However, we assert that these relationships were always implicitly characterised by unequal power dynamics in which the authority of deployed soldiers was ominously present and fear sometimes informed the actions of villagers. Soldiers’ power was always materially represented by the authority vested in them by a powerful demagogic state. It was visibly represented through their combat uniforms, and the gun as part of their daily standing orders, including other soldiering routines such as patrols, and guard duties. We argue that even beyond these circumscribed conditions of relations building, the people behind the combat uniforms had their own agencies that never always resonated with that of the state. Their actions were informed by the chain of command and the consequences wrought by failing to abide by standing orders. In this article, we illuminate those hidden narratives and expose the manner in which the dictatorial state instrumentalises its armed forces despite the disparate personal agencies of those soldiers which are suppressed by the very nature of military service. The paper is based on interviews with soldiers, “magweja” and villagers.
Keywords: Artisanal mining; Soldiers; Diamond; Violence; Zimbabwe

Binh Bui, Carolyn J. Cordery, Zhichao Wang,
Risk management in local authorities: An application of Schatzki's social site ontology,
The British Accounting Review,
Volume 51, Issue 3,
2019,
Pages 299-315,
ISSN 0890-8389,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bar.2019.01.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0890838919300010)
Abstract: Prior research has devoted limited attention to studying changes in organisational risk management (RM) practices. This is despite continuous dissatisfaction from academics and practitioners with organisations' ability to manage risks. We draw on Schatzki's social site ontology to study RM practices of two New Zealand local authorities that both experienced (earthquake) risk events and whose RM practices could be expected to change. We extend recent research utilising Schatzki, by finding that practical intelligibility and general understanding mutually affect each other in the organising of practices. Further, we extend Nama and Lowe’s (2014) addition to Schatzki by highlighting the importance of including teleological structures and accounting devices into the mutually constitutive relationship between general understanding and affectivity. Finally, we contribute to RM literature by proposing that changing the general understanding (in addition to the mere implementation of RM tools) is an important way of making RM change fundamental and sustainable.
Keywords: Accounting; Risk management; Schatzki's social site ontology; Practice theory; Qualitative case study

Scott Anderson, Trish Williams,
Cybersecurity and medical devices: Are the ISO/IEC 80001-2-2 technical controls up to the challenge?,
Computer Standards & Interfaces,
Volume 56,
2018,
Pages 134-143,
ISSN 0920-5489,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csi.2017.10.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920548917302313)
Abstract: Medical devices, in the case of malfunction, can have tangible impact on patient safety. Their security, in a world where the Internet of Things has become a reality, is paramount to the continued safety of patients that are dependent upon these devices. The international standard ISO/IEC 80001 – Application of risk management for IT-networks incorporating medical devices presents a unified and amalgamated approach to the safety of medical devices connected to IT networks. Whilst this standard presents a guide for security and risk management in health delivery organisations, its effectiveness with regard to contemporary cybersecurity is unknown. This research employed a structured review process to compare and analyse the ISO/IEC 80001 technical controls standards (ISO/IEC 80001-2-2 and ISO/IEC 80001-2-8), with contemporary cybersecurity best practice, guidelines and standards. The research deconstructed the technical controls and drew links between these standards and cybersecurity best practice to assess the level of harmonisation. Subsequently, a deeper analysis identified the areas of omission, coverage, addition or improvement that may impact the effectiveness of ISO/IEC 80001 to provide effective cybersecurity protection. ISO/IEC 80001 aims to provide a minimal level of cybersecurity however this research demonstrates that there are deficiencies in the standard and identifies the important aspects of cybersecurity that could be improved. This situation has arisen due to the rapidly evolving nature of the cybersecurity environment and the protracted time to revise and republish international standards. This research identified several areas that require urgent consideration, including Emergency Access, Health Data De-Identification, Physical Locks on Devices, Data Backup, Disaster Recovery, Third-Party Components in Product Lifecycle Roadmap, Transmission Confidentiality, and Transmission Integrity. The research will provide health delivery organisations implementing ISO/IEC 80001, assurance as to the level of protection supplied by the ISO/IEC 80001 standard, and the areas that may need enhancement to increase cybersecurity protection and consequently increase in patient safety. Further, the outcomes are expected to influence development of the related international standard, as the findings from this research are being provided to the International Organisations for Standardisation, TC215 Health Informatics, Joint Working Group 7, to inform the review of ISO/IEC 80001 currently in progress.
Keywords: ISO 80001; Cybersecurity; Risk management; Medical devices

Brian Akins, Yiwei Dou, Jeffrey Ng,
Corruption in bank lending: The role of timely loan loss recognition,
Journal of Accounting and Economics,
Volume 63, Issues 2–3,
2017,
Pages 454-478,
ISSN 0165-4101,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jacceco.2016.08.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165410116300581)
Abstract: Building on the recent literature on corruption in bank lending, we examine the effect of country-level timely loan loss recognition by banks on lending corruption using a unique World Bank dataset that covers more than 3,600 firms across 44 countries. We find evidence consistent with timely loan loss recognition constraining lending corruption because it increases the likelihood of problem loans being uncovered earlier. In further analysis, we find timely loan loss recognition to be less associated with reduced corruption in countries where there is significant government ownership in the banking system and deposit insurance schemes. This evidence is consistent with timely loan loss recognition being less of a deterrent to lending corruption when banks are less disciplined by their capital providers.
Keywords: Timeliness; Loan loss recognition; Corruption; Banks

Christopher Stelly, Vassil Roussev,
SCARF: A container-based approach to cloud-scale digital forensic processing,
Digital Investigation,
Volume 22, Supplement,
2017,
Pages S39-S47,
ISSN 1742-2876,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.diin.2017.06.008.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1742287617301950)
Abstract: The rapid growth of raw data volume requiring forensic processing has become one of the top concerns of forensic analysts. At present, there are no readily available solutions that provide: a) open and flexible integration of existing forensic tools into a processing pipeline; and b) scale-out architecture that is compatible with common cloud technologies. Containers, lightweight OS-level virtualized environments, are quickly becoming the preferred architectural unit for building large-scale data processing systems. We present a container-based software framework, SCARF, which applies this approach to forensic computations. Our prototype demonstrates its practicality by providing low-cost integration of both custom code and a variety of third-party tools via simple data interfaces. The resulting system fits well with the data parallel nature of most forensic tasks, which tend to have few dependencies that limit parallel execution. Our experimental evaluation shows that for several types of processing tasks–such as hashing, indexing and bulk processing–performance scales almost linearly with the addition of hardware resources. We show that the software engineering effort to integrate new tools is quite modest, and all the critical task scheduling and resource allocation are automatically managed by the container orchestration runtime–Docker Swarm, or similar.
Keywords: Real-time forensics; Large-scale forensics; Containers; Cloud computing; SCARF

Yangyang Chen, Ferdinand A. Gul, Cameron Truong, Madhu Veeraraghavan,
Auditor client specific knowledge and internal control weakness: Some evidence on the role of auditor tenure and geographic distance,
Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics,
Volume 12, Issue 2,
2016,
Pages 121-140,
ISSN 1815-5669,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcae.2016.03.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S181556691630011X)
Abstract: In this paper we draw on the audit quality and cluster theory literature to examine whether auditor tenure and auditor's geographic proximity to the client (proxies for auditor client specific knowledge) are associated with the incidence of Section 404 internal control weakness (ICW) under the Sarbanes–Oxley Act (2002). Using a large sample of 24,217 firm-year observations for the period 2004–2012, we show that firms with long auditor tenure and in closer geographic proximity to auditors have lower incidence of ICW. Furthermore, we find that the positive association between auditor–client geographic distance and ICW is weaker for firms with longer auditor tenure. Our results suggest that auditor rotation policies could deprive the auditor of client specific knowledge, especially for auditors located further away from their clients. Our results are robust to propensity score matching method and endogenous effects.
Keywords: Internal control weakness; Client specific knowledge; Auditor tenure; Auditor–client geographic distance

Keryn Chalmers, David Hay, Hichem Khlif,
Internal control in accounting research: A review,
Journal of Accounting Literature,
Volume 42,
2019,
Pages 80-103,
ISSN 0737-4607,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.acclit.2018.03.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0737460717300435)
Abstract: In 2001, the US moved to regulate internal control reporting by management and auditors. While some jurisdictions have followed the lead of the US, many others have not. An important question, therefore, is the relevance of internal control to stakeholders. The more specific issue of the benefits of US-style regulation of internal control reporting is also topical. We review studies on the determinants of internal control quality and its economic consequences for stakeholders including investors, creditors, managers, auditors and financial analysts. We extend previous reviews by focusing on US studies published since 2013 as well as all non-US studies investigating IC quality including countries regulating IC disclosure as well as unregulated settings and both developed and developing economies. In doing so, we identify research questions where evidence remains mixed and new directions in which there are research opportunities. Three main insights arise from our analysis. First, evidence on the economic consequences of internal control quality suggests that the quality of internal control can have a significant effect on decision making by users of financial information. Second, the results of research on the empirical association between ownership structure, certain board characteristics and internal control quality is generally mixed. Empirical evidence concerning the association between audit committee characteristics and internal control quality generally supports a positive and significant association. Finally, while studies in non-US jurisdictions are increasing, opportunities remain to explore the determinants and consequences of internal control in other jurisdictions. Our review provides evidence for policy makers of whether there are benefits from requiring management and auditors to report on internal control over financial reporting.
Keywords: Internal control; Corporate governance; Systematic review; Cost of finance; Earnings quality; External audit

Masoom Alam, Naina Emmanuel, Tanveer Khan, Abid Khan, Nadeem Javaid, Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo, Rajkumar Buyya,
Secure policy execution using reusable garbled circuit in the cloud,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 87,
2018,
Pages 488-501,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2017.12.067.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X17315273)
Abstract: While cloud computing is fairly mature, there are underpinning data privacy and confidentiality issues that have yet to be resolved by existing security solutions such as cross domain access control policies. The latter necessitates the sharing of attributes with a Trusted Third Party (TTP), which in turn raises data privacy concerns. In this paper, we present a Privacy Aware Cross Tenant Access Control (PaCTAC) protocol for cross domain cloud users, based on reusable garbled circuit. We also propose the concept of a privacy aware Cloud Policy Decision Point (CPDP) that can be offered by cloud service providers. CPDP plays the role of a trusted third-party among its different tenants. We then formally specify PaCTAC to demonstrate its security.
Keywords: Cross tenant access control; Formal specification; Cloud computing; Reusable garbled circuits

Bianca Trinkenreich, Gleison Santos, Monalessa Perini Barcellos,
SINIS: A GQM+Strategies-based approach for identifying goals, strategies and indicators for IT services,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 100,
2018,
Pages 147-164,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2018.04.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584918300697)
Abstract: Context
Measurement is a key process to support organizations in managing and improving processes, products and services. The literature on IT (Information Technology) Service states that IT services should support critical business processes and should be measured in order to provide useful information for decision-making. However, there is a lack of clear guidance regarding what should be measured and which critical business processes should be considered.
Objective
We conducted this work aiming to answer the research question: How to support identification of IT service goals, strategies and indicators at different organizational levels and aligned to business goals?
Method
We defined SINIS, a method to identify Goals, Strategies and Indicators for IT Services, which has been developed to support IT service departments in identifying IT service goals, strategies and indicators to provide information for decision-making at different organizational levels and in alignment with business goals. SINIS supports defining strategies to achieve IT service goals, and identifying indicators to evaluate the strategies and goals achievement. SINIS is based on process improvement approaches (mainly GQM+Strategies) and approaches related to IT service management (mainly COBIT Goals Cascade)
Results
SINIS was used in a case study in the IT Infrastructure and IT Security departments of a large global company. Results showed that participants were able to build the GQM+Strategies Grid and discard useless indicators. In addition, team members became more devoted to measurement and strategies, and better understood relations between goals, strategies and indicators. Templates, examples and checklists useful to learn how to execute SINIS and to properly record the produced results were used by the study participants.
Conclusions
Initial evidences show that SINIS supports building the GQM+Strategies Grid and helps IT service departments to define strategies and identify useful indicators, contributing to focus efforts on strategies aligned to IT service and business goals.

Daren Fadolalkarim, Elisa Bertino,
A-PANDDE: Advanced Provenance-based ANomaly Detection of Data Exfiltration,
Computers & Security,
Volume 84,
2019,
Pages 276-287,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2019.03.021.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404819300823)
Abstract: Insider threats are a serious problem that could be more damaging than outsiders’ attacks. The reason is that insiders are users who have legitimate access to the data. A database management system (DBMS) access control mechanism is unable to prevent misuse of the data to which the user is authorized to access. Many mechanisms were proposed to detect insiders’ attempts to misuse or steal data at the database level and application level. However, these mechanisms are unable to detect users’ attempts to exfiltrate the data if they store the data into files on their machines. Hence, we need a mechanism that is able to detect suspicious activities resulting from the insiders at the operating system level. As an initial step in this direction, we propose an anomaly detection system that monitors insiders’ actions on data outside the database. To be more precise, our system tracks file system access operations (e.g., read, write, and open to print) on data piped from the database to files. Our approach captures syntactic features of SQL queries that users submit to the DBMS to retrieve data from the database (e.g., select commands). It does that by recording the tables’ object identifiers. Also, the system collects some data features like the tables’ selectivities to profile the amount of data that is being accessed by the user. Furthermore, the system tracks frequencies of users’ actions on files that contain data from the database. The collected information is then used to build profiles of users’ activities. Such profiles are later used to indicate normal and abnormal users’ actions. Experimental results show that our technique is close to accurate, and the detection mechanism incurs low overhead.
Keywords: Operating system; Security and reliability; Insider attacks; Anomaly detection; Provenance collection

Cristina Alcaraz, Javier Lopez, Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo,
Resilient interconnection in cyber-physical control systems,
Computers & Security,
Volume 71,
2017,
Pages 2-14,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2017.03.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404817300573)
Abstract: Secure interconnection between multiple cyber-physical systems has become a fundamental requirement in many critical infrastructures, where security may be centralized in a few nodes of the system. These nodes could, for example, have the mission of addressing the authorization services required for access in highly-restricted remote substations. For this reason, the main aim of this paper is to unify all these features, together with the resilience measures so as to provide control at all times under a limited access in the field and avoid congestion. Concretely, we present here an optimal reachability-based restoration approach, capable of restoring the structural control in linear times taking into account structural controllability, the supernode theory, the good practices of the IEC-62351 standard and the contextual conditions. For context management, a new attribute is specified to provide a more complete authorization service based on a practical policy, role and attribute-based access control (PBAC + RBAC + ABAC). To validate the approach, two case studies are also discussed under two strategic adversarial models.
Keywords: Structural controllability; Cyber-physical systems; Interconnection; Access control; Resilience; Redundancy

Sandra Alves, Maribel Fernández,
A graph-based framework for the analysis of access control policies,
Theoretical Computer Science,
Volume 685,
2017,
Pages 3-22,
ISSN 0304-3975,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tcs.2016.10.018.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0304397516305965)
Abstract: We design a graph-based framework for the analysis of access control policies that aims at easing the specification and verification tasks for security administrators. We consider policies in the category-based access control model, which has been shown to subsume many of the most well known access control models (e.g., MAC, DAC, RBAC). Using a graphical representation of category-based policies, we show how answers to usual administrator queries can be automatically computed, and properties of access control policies checked. We show applications in the context of emergency situations, where our framework can be used to analyse the interaction between access control and emergency management.
Keywords: Security policies; Access control; Operational semantics; Graph-based analysis

Jackie Brinkerhoff,
Nine dangerous myths about identity governance,
Computer Fraud & Security,
Volume 2019, Issue 6,
2019,
Pages 6-8,
ISSN 1361-3723,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-3723(19)30062-4.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361372319300624)
Abstract: We ought to approach the digital revolution with a spirit of optimism and look forward to a future of better, more efficient and insightful business. Yet each week brings a fresh worry about new technology, usually security-related. Stories abound of hacks, botnets, major breaches affecting even the biggest and most powerful organisations in the world. Even entire countries can be knocked offline.1 There are many myths and misconceptions that surround identity governance. Businesses need to see through them if they are to tackle the constantly changing threat from hackers. The barrage of stories about threats and exploits only makes grasping the nettle of identity governance more important. And rather than seeing it as a box that needs to be checked, organisations need to embrace the opportunity to expand their security beyond the traditional network perimeter and gain insight into, and control over, their data and their entire security estate, says Jackie Brinkerhoff of SailPoint.

Deb Sledgianowski, Mohamed Gomaa, Christine Tan,
Toward integration of Big Data, technology and information systems competencies into the accounting curriculum,
Journal of Accounting Education,
Volume 38,
2017,
Pages 81-93,
ISSN 0748-5751,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaccedu.2016.12.008.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0748575116301282)
Abstract: Recent initiatives of the American Accounting Association (AAA) and the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business International (AACSB) have emphasized the importance of integrating Big Data and technology into the accounting curriculum. In response to these calls and to identify a common body of instructional resources toward this purpose, our paper uses the lens of the Competency Integration for Accounting Education framework to provide examples of Big Data and information systems integration into instructional resources. We loosely frame these instructional resources using accounting course subjects as the unit of analysis.
Keywords: Big Data; Technology; Information systems; Accounting curriculum; Competency integration

Alexandre C. Dimian, Costin Sorin Bildea,
Energy efficient methanol-to-olefins process,
Chemical Engineering Research and Design,
Volume 131,
2018,
Pages 41-54,
ISSN 0263-8762,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cherd.2017.11.009.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0263876217306123)
Abstract: This paper deals with the conceptual design of an energy efficient and cost-effective methanol-to-olefin (MTO) process. The innovative solution consists in full recovery of the energy generated by reaction. The reactor effluent enthalpy can cover feed preheating, evaporation and superheating in a sequence of three feed-effluent-heat exchanger units. The novel method employs mechanical vapour compression for upgrading the temperature/enthalpy profile of the condensing water/hydrocarbon mixture, recovering a considerable amount of energy, otherwise lost by water quenching. Saved energy may pay back the compressor cost in about one year. The energy released in the reactor is used for running a combined heat and power cycle. The power is sufficient for driving the compressors, while the low-pressure steam may run an ammonia-absorption refrigeration plant that supplies most of the cold utilities in separations. The olefin separation and purification is handled in a compact scheme of five columns, energetically integrated with the reaction and preliminary separation sections. The ethylene/propylene splitter is designed for high recovery and flexible operation. Heat pump is implemented for propylene purification. Rigorous sizing is performed for the key units. Operation and capital costs are minimised since the design is almost neutral regarding energy requirements and employs a minimum number of units.
Keywords: Methanol-to-olefin process; Process systems engineering; Chemical process design; Computer-aided process engineering; Energy saving

Fatemeh Nazerian, Homayun Motameni, Hossein Nematzadeh,
Emergency role-based access control (E-RBAC) and analysis of model specifications with alloy,
Journal of Information Security and Applications,
Volume 45,
2019,
Pages 131-142,
ISSN 2214-2126,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jisa.2019.01.008.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214212618303843)
Abstract: In role-based access control (RBAC), users gain access to predetermined roles and permissions. Thus, desired results are not achieved in emergency situations through policy in RBAC. In emergency situations, users should sometimes gain access to resources not authorized in normal situations. To increase the flexibility of access control, Break the Glass (BTG) policy was proposed. It allows users to break or override access controls, while every operation is documented to create maximum responsibility for users. Users with BTG access have maximum freedom to override the access controls and constraints of the model. In this paper, the flexibility of RBAC is enhanced by proposing an Emergency RBAC (E-RBAC), which uses BTG policy for managing the system in emergency situation. However, separation of duty (SOD) constraint is included to control and limit user access in this situation. Then, an administrative model is proposed to manage large E-RBAC systems. An administrative model reduces excessive burden for an administrator in large E-RBAC systems. At the next stage, E-RBAC is illustrated with medical and drug-dispensation scenarios and is then implemented through Alloy (the first logic language) so as to analyze the validity of model specifications.
Keywords: Role-based access control; Break the glass; Administrative model; Separation of duty; Formal specification; Alloy

Tim Neerup Themsen, Peter Skærbæk,
The performativity of risk management frameworks and technologies: The translation of uncertainties into pure and impure risks,
Accounting, Organizations and Society,
Volume 67,
2018,
Pages 20-33,
ISSN 0361-3682,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aos.2018.01.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0361368218300011)
Abstract: This article examines the long-term dynamics among a best-practice risk management framework, risk management technologies and the translation of uncertainties into risks by using a longitudinal case study of a large mega-project. We show that the framework and technologies through the visual power of inscriptions and the purifying work of risk consultants as experts establish the boundaries of the forms of uncertainties that are accepted and included as risks. We term the accepted and included risks ‘pure risks’ and the risks excluded after disagreement ‘impure risks’. We also show that the construction of impure risks challenges the predictions of the framework causing a false sense of security for the project objectives, and that the continuous readjustment of technologies, in particular, is necessary to ensure the long-term realisation of these predictions. Finally, this article contributes to the literature on performativity by showing how technologies serve as buffers to shield failing economic frameworks against criticism.
Keywords: Risk management; Uncertainty; Performativity; Purification; Inscriptions; Visualisation

Seung-yun Kim, Yilin Yang,
A self-navigating robot using Fuzzy Petri nets,
Robotics and Autonomous Systems,
Volume 101,
2018,
Pages 153-165,
ISSN 0921-8890,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.robot.2017.11.008.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0921889016302263)
Abstract: Petri nets (PNs) are capable of modeling nearly any conceivable system and can provide a better understanding of the idealized action sequence in which to most effectively describe or execute said system through their powerful analytical capabilities. However, because real world instances are rarely as consistent and ideal as simulated models, basic PN modeling and simulation properties may be insufficient in practical application. We remedy this through specialization in Fuzzy Petri nets (FPNs). Fuzzy logic is incorporated to better model a self-navigating robot algorithm, thanks to its versatile multi-valued logic reasoning. By using FPNs, it is possible to simulate, assess, and communicate the process and reasoning of the navigational algorithm and apply it to real world programming. In this paper, we propose a series of specific fuzzy algorithms intended to be implemented in concert on a mobile robot platform in order to optimize the sequence of actions needed for a given task, primarily the navigation of an unknown maze. A set of varied maze configurations were developed and simulated as PN and FPN models, providing a testing environment to examine the efficiency of several methodologies. Five methods, including an original proposal in this paper, were compared across 30,000 simulations, evaluating in particular performance in processing cost in time. Our experiments concluded with results suggesting a very competitive task completion time at a considerable fraction in processing cost compared to the closest performing alternatives.
Keywords: Petri nets; Fuzzy Petri nets; Fuzzy logic; Modeling and simulation; Autonomous Robot navigation

Kenndy Njenga, Lalit Garg, Amit Kumar Bhardwaj, Vijay Prakash, Seema Bawa,
The cloud computing adoption in higher learning institutions in Kenya: Hindering factors and recommendations for the way forward,
Telematics and Informatics,
Volume 38,
2019,
Pages 225-246,
ISSN 0736-5853,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tele.2018.10.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0736585318306397)
Abstract: Cloud computing technology has revolutionized the delivery of computing services to the consumers as customized services on demand making them cost effective and resource efficient. However, various challenges hinder the adoption of this technology, especially in educational institutions. This paper explores the factors that information technology (IT) leaders consider to be impeding the adoption of cloud-computing in institutions of higher learning in Kenya. A quantitative investigation using an online questionnaire was used to conduct this study in the 69 accredited universities and colleges in Kenya. The study findings were statistically analyzed to rank the level of influence of the factors that under investigation. The key factors identified as hindering the adoption of cloud computing include concerns about the reliability of Cloud Service providers and lack of skills in cloud computing. Also, there are concerns about inadequate support and training from Cloud Service providers and government policies on cloud computing, data security and confidentiality. Role based training for Cloud services users, proactive management of Cloud services and implementation of information systems governance policies are recommended to address these concerns. These recommendations have been discussed and consolidated into a framework for adoption of cloud computing that can also be applied by educational institutions in other developing countries to assist the key stakeholders in guiding their decision-making process on adoption of cloud computing. Although the study is limited to accredited universities and colleges in Kenya, it comes at a convenient time when the Kenyan government is launching e-learning in all public primary schools. There is however not much research that had been done especially on cloud computing in Kenyan educational institutions. This study, therefore, adds new insights on what needs to be considered and addressed to facilitate the adoption of cloud computing in institutions of higher education.

Dereck Barr-Pulliam,
The effect of continuous auditing and role duality on the incidence and likelihood of reporting management opportunism,
Management Accounting Research,
Volume 44,
2019,
Pages 44-56,
ISSN 1044-5005,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mar.2018.10.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1044500518300635)
Abstract: This study examines whether continuous auditing and functionally separating the internal audit function’s (IAF) dual role as provider of both assurance and consulting affect (1) internal auditors’ perceptions of the likelihood management opportunistically manipulates earnings and (2) the likelihood auditors report evidence of these reporting choices. Participants are 188 practicing internal auditors. Related to the first research question, I predict and find an ordinal interaction that suggests the perceived likelihood of earnings manipulation is least likely when the IAF both employs continuous auditing and functionally separates its roles. Related to the second research question, I find that separating the dual role increases the likelihood of reporting. In addition, how auditors perceive the likelihood of earnings manipulation positively affects the likelihood of reporting. Subsequent analyses examining both research questions in the context of accruals-based versus real earnings management suggest a more nuanced story. Related to the perceived likelihood of earnings manipulation, I find a similar ordinal interaction in the accruals setting but only find a main effect of continuous auditing in the real earnings management setting. Related to the likelihood of reporting, I find no significant effects in the accruals setting, but find that either continuous auditing or functional separation of the IAF’s dual role increases the likelihood of reporting identified incidences of real earnings manipulation. This study has implications for auditors, managers, and accounting researchers.
Keywords: Continuous auditing; Earnings manipulation; Internal audit; Objectivity

Yan Cao, Zhiqiu Huang, Changbo Ke, Jian Xie, Jinyong Wang,
A topology-aware access control model for collaborative cyber-physical spaces: Specification and verification,
Computers & Security,
Volume 87,
2019,
101478,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2019.02.013.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404818310861)
Abstract: In collaborative environment, distributed multiple cyber-physical spaces interoperate with each other aiming to provide an intelligent spatial environment for their users to conduct their collaborative activities. Subjects and objects roam in the physical and cyber spaces among domains to support the completion of the activities. These dynamic behaviors bring great challenges to security issue. The actions of roaming subjects and roaming objects need to be specified and checked against security requirements of constituent domains. However, the existing inter-domain access control models was proposed for the traditional information system and focus on the cyber security. They cannot deal with the intricacies of cross-domain access requests in cyber-physical spaces. In this paper, we propose a formal inter-domain model to specify cyber-physical access control policies and a model checking approach to ensure security requirements hold in these policies. We first present a formal definition of the topology configuration to capture the environment characteristics of the cyber-physical spaces. It provides important contextual information for the access control system. Then, based on topology attributes defined in the topology configuration, a topology-aware inter-domain access control model TA-CPAC is proposed. It can adjust the permission assignment adaptively to react to the behaviors changes of subjects and objects. Next, the topology configuration and TA-CPAC model are formalized by the use of bigraphs and bigraphs reactive systems respectively, which allows us to utilize the model checking technology to reason about that whether the behaviors of roaming subjects and objects satisfy security requirements of all constituent domains. Finally, the effectiveness of our approach is evaluated by a collaborative scenario in a smart city.
Keywords: Cross-domain authorization; Access control; Cyber-physical space; Bigraphs; Model checking

Yu Chen, John Daniel Eshleman, Jared S. Soileau,
Board Gender Diversity and Internal Control Weaknesses,
Advances in Accounting,
Volume 33,
2016,
Pages 11-19,
ISSN 0882-6110,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.adiac.2016.04.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0882611015301103)
Abstract: We investigate the role of gender diversity on corporate boards in mitigating internal control weaknesses (ICWs). We predict and find that firms with greater female board representation are less likely to have ICWs. The results are not driven by females sitting on the audit committee. Instead, it appears that females on corporate boards reduce ICWs, regardless of whether they sit on the audit committee or not. Our results are inconsistent with the critical mass theory, showing that even one female board member could reduce the likelihood of ICWs. Taken together, the evidence is consistent with female board members' typical characteristic tendency shown in prior literature (e.g., being more likely to discuss difficult issues, more fiscally conservative, better monitors, and less tolerant of opportunistic behaviors). Our results have implications for board member selection from a policy perspective as well as board member monitoring from an investor and regulator perspective.
Keywords: Gender diversity; Internal controls; Board of directors; Corporate governance

Rosemary Kim, Jagdish Gangolly, Philip Elsas,
A framework for analytics and simulation of accounting information systems: A Petri net modeling primer,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 27,
2017,
Pages 30-54,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2017.09.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089516301257)
Abstract: Accountants have modeled and documented accounting information systems (AIS) through system flowcharts, which have also been used to study internal controls. However, when AIS are large, complex, and distributed, their system flowcharts are difficult to comprehend, challenging to use, and insufficient to support decision making in system design and implementation. In this primer we propose a set of requirements for modeling and documenting complex AIS that address those concerns. Since most other models such as SSAD, UML, and BPMN used to represent AIS are influenced by or can be reduced to Petri net models, we compare system flowcharts with Petri net representation of AIS. We evaluate systems flowcharts and Petri nets for their suitability in modeling AIS. We find that Petri nets are an attractive alternative due to their extensive capability to perform analytics and simulation. Analytics can be used to study structural and behavioral properties while simulations can help study run-time behavior of systems to evaluate computing capacity and system performance. We provide a detailed description and guidelines of how design analytics and implementation analytics can be achieved based on the Petri net framework. With this unified modeling strategy, we also describe how it can support the process of audit analytics. Petri nets are popular in computer science, engineering, manufacturing, supply chain management, and business process reengineering. We explore this viable method for rigorous study of AIS modeling and documentation.
Keywords: Petri net; System documentation; Model of accounting information systems; Analytics; Simulation; Verification of system properties

Kim K. Jeppesen,
The role of auditing in the fight against corruption,
The British Accounting Review,
Volume 51, Issue 5,
2019,
100798,
ISSN 0890-8389,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bar.2018.06.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0890838918300489)
Abstract: The purpose of this paper is to analyze how various types of auditing may contribute to fight corruption. While previous literature has primarily addressed auditing's ability to prevent corruption, this paper systematically explores auditing's potential to detect corruption. It argues that financial auditing has excluded corruption from the definition of fraud and instead classified it as ‘non-compliance with laws and regulations’. The main arguments for this exclusion is that corruption leaves no material errors in financial statements and no evidence for the auditor to follow. The paper refutes this, arguing that commercial and political corruption creates misstatements in the financial statements of the corruption giver's organization as well as the corruption receiver's organization. Thus, if auditing is to gain a more prominent role in the fight against corruption, auditing standards must include corruption in the definition of fraud, private and public sector auditors need to cooperate and exchange information, auditing techniques to detect corruption should be employed, and the auditing profession must embrace effective preventive measures such as anti-corruption certifications.
Keywords: Corruption; Bribery; Accounting; Auditing; Expectation gap; IFAC

Vasileios Gkioulos, Erko Risthein, Stephen D. Wolthusen,
TACTICS: Validation of the security framework developed for tactical SOA,
Journal of Information Security and Applications,
Volume 35,
2017,
Pages 96-105,
ISSN 2214-2126,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jisa.2017.06.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214212617301588)
Abstract: Contemporary military networks and the requirements arising from future strategic planning, call for the increasing integration of information mobility and network enabled capabilities on the field. Therefore, adopting Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) concepts for the development of command and control infrastructures have become essential, since they provide modularity, flexibility and interoperability of services. Nevertheless, constraints related to infrastructure and operational aspects, render current enterprise SOA ineffective for the tactical domain. Accordingly, the goal of TACTICS was the definition and experimental demonstration of a Tactical Services Infrastructure (TSI) that enables contemporary tactical radio equipment to participate in SOA, providing the required functionalities under the imposed constraints. This article presents a comprehensive view of the developed architecture, focusing on the elements that constitute the security framework according to our closing experimental results and field demonstrations.
Keywords: Ad-hoc; Security; Service oriented architectures; Tactical networks; Tactical service infrastructure

S. Kirthica, Rajeswari Sridhar,
CIT: A Cloud Inter-operation Toolkit to enhance elasticity and tolerate shut down of external clouds,
Journal of Network and Computer Applications,
Volume 85,
2017,
Pages 32-46,
ISSN 1084-8045,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2016.12.009.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1084804516303137)
Abstract: Inter-operation with other clouds, External Clouds (ECs), enhances elasticity of a cloud. In situations where an EC shuts down for maintenance or other purposes, the cloud that borrows resources from the EC must provide alternate resources to its users, whereas it does not usually do so, leading to loss or unavailability of resources to these users. Our work concentrates on this problem which appears to be unsolved to the best of our knowledge. We develop a toolkit, coined ‘Cloud Inter-operation Toolkit (CIT)', to handle this particular scenario, in addition to providing a sound inter-operation and all resource provisioning activities in an easier and less tedious manner. Thus, CIT makes the cloud highly tolerant to the shutting down of ECs that have provided resources to the cloud's users, thereby guaranteeing a more reliable and trustworthy cloud. As our work is a solution to an untouched problem, two new evaluation parameters have been introduced to study its effectiveness - Clot Time and Degree of Fault Tolerance. There is a healthy tolerance to the shutting down of ECs and resource provisioning is uninterrupted to the maximum extent possible, as is evident from the results obtained by evaluating our work. Thus, the successful cloud inter-operation provided by CIT enhances elasticity and ensures a high Transaction Success Rate while keeping the Turnaround Time as low as possible.
Keywords: Cloud computing; Resource provisioning; Elasticity; Inter-cloud; Multi-cloud; Fault tolerance

Marcia Weidenmier Watson, Bonnie K. Klamm, Joann Segovia, Mark W. Lehman,
Enterprise system case using Microsoft Dynamics GP via DynamicsCloud,
Journal of Accounting Education,
Volume 37,
2016,
Pages 67-92,
ISSN 0748-5751,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaccedu.2016.09.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0748575116300215)
Abstract: This case increases your understanding of enterprise systems by applying course concepts in an active-learning setting. Specifically, you build on previous course knowledge by using Microsoft Dynamics GP via a cloud provider, DynamicsCloud. Cloud applications allow companies to reduce information technology costs and use one consistent platform across the entire company, whether they have one or many locations across the globe. The case consists of three main parts (i.e., system overview, data collection and storage, and information retrieval) and integrates internal controls and exercises within each part of the case. Upon completion of this case, you will understand the basic functions of an enterprise system. Activities require you to collect and process data in the revenue and purchasing cycles, identify internal controls within the system, and provide useful information for decision making. In addition, you gain hands-on experience using an enterprise system and acquire skills that transfer to other enterprise systems or to upgraded versions of Dynamics GP, which companies can use to support global operations. The case should increase accounting information system knowledge, system navigation skills, and the ability to learn on your own.
Keywords: Cloud application; Enterprise system; Microsoft Dynamics GP

Michael Ettredge, Matthew G. Sherwood, Lili Sun,
Effects of SOX 404(b) implementation on audit fees by SEC filer size category,
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy,
Volume 37, Issue 1,
2018,
Pages 21-38,
ISSN 0278-4254,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaccpubpol.2018.01.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0278425418300048)
Abstract: This study provides novel information about the consequences of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) by documenting differential audit fee shocks accompanying implementation of SOX 404(b) internal control tests and reports for clients in three size categories: large accelerated filers (LAFs), small accelerated filers (SAFs), and non-accelerated filers (NAFs). First, we find that although both LAFs and SAFs experience audit fee shocks attributable to 404(b), SAFs on average experience relatively greater fee shocks than LAFs (107.8% versus 84.6%; Table 6). Second, even though NAFs are not subject to 404(b) procedures, we document a 42.7% fee shock for NAFs. Our interpretation is that 404(b) generated an immediate increase in demand for audit services with no corresponding sudden increase in supply of experienced audit personnel, enabling audit firms to charge higher prices for all filers including NAFs. We find that audit fee shocks attributable to 404(b) are positively associated with audit offices’ bargaining power relative to clients, and that the effect of offices’ bargaining power is strongest for SAFs and weakest for NAFs. Although higher audit fees (with client characteristics held constant) are often considered an indicator of better audit quality, we find virtually no evidence that the massive fee increases in 2004 are accompanied by improvements in same-year or next-year audit quality, measured as decreases in discretionary accruals and a lower likelihood of subsequent restatements of audited financial reports.
Keywords: SOX 404(b); Internal controls; Audit fees; Accelerated filers; Non-accelerated filers; Audit office; Bargaining power

S. Parkinson, A. Crampton,
Identification of irregularities and allocation suggestion of relative file system permissions,
Journal of Information Security and Applications,
Volume 30,
2016,
Pages 27-39,
ISSN 2214-2126,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jisa.2016.04.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214212616300394)
Abstract: It is well established that file system permissions in large, multi-user environments can be audited to identify vulnerabilities with respect to what is regarded as standard practice. For example, identifying that a user has an elevated level of access to a system directory which is unnecessary and introduces a vulnerability. Similarly, the allocation of new file system permissions can be assigned following the same standard practices. On the contrary, and less well established, is the identification of potential vulnerabilities as well as the implementation of new permissions with respect to a system's current access control implementation. Such tasks are heavily reliant on expert interpretation. For example, the assigned relationship between users and groups, directories and their parents, and the allocation of permissions on file system resources all need to be carefully considered. This paper presents the novel use of statistical analysis to establish independence and homogeneity in allocated file system permissions. This independence can be interpreted as potential anomalies in a system's implementation of access control. The paper then presents the use of instance-based learning to suggest the allocation of new permissions conforming to a system's current implementation structure. Following this, both of the presented techniques are then included in a tool for interacting with Microsoft's New Technology File System (NTFS) permissions. This involves experimental analysis on six different NTFS directory structures within different organisations. The effectiveness of the developed technique is then established through analysing the true positive and true negative values. The presented results demonstrate the potential of the proposed techniques for overcoming complexities with real-world file system administration.
Keywords: Access control; Auditing; Decision support

Meng Liu, Yun Luo, Chi Yang, Shaoning Pang, Deepak Puthal, Kaijun Ren, Xuyun Zhang,
Privacy-preserving matrix product based static mutual exclusive roles constraints violation detection in interoperable role-based access control,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 109,
2020,
Pages 457-468,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2018.10.017.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X17320551)
Abstract: Secure interoperation is an important technology to protect shared data in multi-domain environments. IRBAC (Interoperable Role-based Access Control) 2000 model has been proposed to achieve security interoperation between two or more RBAC administrative domains. Static Separation of Duties (SSoD) is an important security policy in RBAC, but it has not been enforced in the IRBAC 2000 model. As a result, some previous works have studied the problem of SMER (Statically Mutually Exclusive Roles) constraints violation between two RBAC domains in the IRBAC 2000 model. However all of them do not enforce how to preserve privacy of RBAC policies, such as roles, roles hierarchies and user-role assignment while detecting SMER constraints violation, if the two interoperable domains do not want to disclose them each other and to others. In order to enforce privacy-preserving detection of SMER constraints violation, we first introduce a solution without privacy-preserving mechanism using matrix product. Then a privacy-preserving solution is proposed to securely detect SMER constraints violation without disclosing any RBAC policy based on a secure three-party protocol to matrix product computation. By efficiency analysis and experimental results comparison, the secure three-party computation protocol to matrix product based on the Paillier cryptosystem is more efficient and practical.
Keywords: Privacy-preserving; Secure multi-party computation; Matrix product; Homomorphic cryptosystem; Statically mutually exclusive roles

Oyindamola Oluwatimi, Maria Luisa Damiani, Elisa Bertino,
A context-aware system to secure enterprise content: Incorporating reliability specifiers,
Computers & Security,
Volume 77,
2018,
Pages 162-178,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2018.04.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404818303018)
Abstract: The sensors of a context-aware system extract contextual information from the environment and relay that information to higher-level processes of the system so to influence the system’s control decisions. However, an adversary can maliciously influence such controls indirectly by manipulating the environment in which the sensors are monitoring, thereby granting privileges the adversary would otherwise not normally have. To address such context monitoring issues, we extend CASSEC by incorporating sentience-like constructs, which enable the emulation of “confidence”, into our proximity-based access control model to grant the system the ability to make more inferable decisions based on the degree of reliability of extracted contextual information. In CASSEC 2.0, we evaluate our confidence constructs by implementing two new authentication mechanisms. Co-proximity authentication employs our time-based challenge-response protocol, which leverages Bluetooth Low Energy beacons as its underlying occupancy detection technology. Biometric authentication relies on the accelerometer and fingerprint sensors to measure behavioral and physiological user features to prevent unauthorized users from using an authorized user’s device. We provide a feasibility study demonstrating how confidence constructs can improve the decision engine of context-aware access control systems.
Keywords: Access control; Context awareness; BYOD; Security; Mobility; Biometric; Authentication; Reliability; Proximity

Simon Parkinson,
Use of access control to minimise ransomware impact,
Network Security,
Volume 2017, Issue 7,
2017,
Pages 5-8,
ISSN 1353-4858,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-4858(17)30069-7.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353485817300697)
Abstract: The potential for financial gain has resulted in the establishment of a multi-billion dollar ransomware industry founded on exploitation.1 Those with weak, unprotected systems, as well as those with little security-specific knowledge, are more likely to fall victim. Such users may not be able to adequately assess the potential risks and may be caught unaware. Those with the most to lose – for example, users who are heavily reliant on their IT system and its data for undertaking their daily business – heighten the potential for exploitation. Ransomware is now a multi-billion dollar industry. Those with weak, unprotected systems, as well as those with little security-specific knowledge, are most likely to fall victim. Such users may not be able to adequately assess the potential risks. And those with the most to lose – for example, users who are heavily reliant on their IT system and its data for undertaking their daily business – heighten the potential for exploitation. Simon Parkinson of the University of Huddersfield examines how access tools can be used to reduce the threat from ransomware.

Yanjun Zuo, Jigang Liu,
A reputation-based model for mobile agent migration for information search and retrieval,
International Journal of Information Management,
Volume 37, Issue 5,
2017,
Pages 357-366,
ISSN 0268-4012,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2017.04.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0268401216304947)
Abstract: Mobile agent technology has been used in various applications including e-commerce, information processing, distributed network management, and database access. Information search and retrieval can be conducted by mobile agents in a decentralized system. As compared with the client/server model, the mobile agent approach has an advantage of saving network bandwidth and offering flexibility in information search and retrieval. In this paper, we present a model for mobile agents to select the most reputable information host to search and retrieve information. We use opinion-based belief structure to represent, aggregate and calculate the reputation of an information host. Since reputation is a multi-faced concept, our approach first allows the users to rank each information host's quality of service based on a set of evaluation categories. Then, a comprehensive, final reputation of the host is obtained by aggregating those specific category reputations. To recognize the subjective nature of a reputation, the transferable belief model is used to represent and rank the category reputation. Experiments are conducted using the Aglets technology to illustrate mobile agent migration.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Mobile agent; Reputation; Belief; Experiment

Assadarat Khurat, Boontawee Suntisrivaraporn, Dieter Gollmann,
Privacy policies verification in composite services using OWL,
Computers & Security,
Volume 67,
2017,
Pages 122-141,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2017.02.015.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404817300512)
Abstract: Privacy has been an important issue for online services collecting customer data. P3P is a privacy policy language with a fixed vocabulary to express privacy practices of online services. The matching between the privacy practices (P3P policies) and users' privacy preferences facilitates the users to be aware of services' usage of their data. However, the change from single to composite online services raises more privacy concern due to the increasing amount of user data being collected, stored and shared. This change impacts on P3P since it was designed from a single service perspective. In addition, P3P allows the specification of policies containing semantic inconsistencies. In this paper, we extend P3P to be suitable for composite services and propose a formal semantics for P3P using OWL to facilitate reasoning about semantic ambiguities in P3P policies. The constraints defined in our ontology are used to verify potential semantic inconsistencies and to check for conflicts occurring from P3P policies of service members. We have implemented a P3P verification tool and verified five hundred P3P policies collected from actual websites. The verification result shows that more than half of these P3P policies contain conflicts.
Keywords: P3P policy; Privacy policy; OWL ontology; Composite service; Reasoning

John D’Arcy, Pei-Lee Teh,
Predicting employee information security policy compliance on a daily basis: The interplay of security-related stress, emotions, and neutralization,
Information & Management,
Volume 56, Issue 7,
2019,
103151,
ISSN 0378-7206,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.im.2019.02.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378720618300739)
Abstract: We conceptualized security-related stress (SRS) and proposed a theoretical model linking SRS, discrete emotions, coping response, and information security policy (ISP) compliance. We used an experience sampling design, wherein 138 professionals completed surveys. We observed that SRS had a positive association with frustration and fatigue, and these negative emotions were associated with neutralization of ISP violations. Additionally, frustration and fatigue make employees more likely to follow through on their rationalizations of ISP violations by decreased ISP compliance. Our findings provide evidence that neutralization is not a completely stable phenomenon but can vary within individuals from one time point to another.
Keywords: Information security policy (ISP); Security compliance; Affective events theory; Coping theory; Affect; Emotions; Security-related stress; Experience sampling methodology

Zulfiqar Ali, Muhammad Imran, Mansour Alsulaiman, Tanveer Zia, Muhammad Shoaib,
A zero-watermarking algorithm for privacy protection in biomedical signals,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 82,
2018,
Pages 290-303,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2017.12.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X17322975)
Abstract: Confidentiality of health information is indispensable to protect privacy of an individual. However, recent advances in electronic healthcare systems allow transmission of sensitive information through the Internet, which is prone to various vulnerabilities, attacks and may leads to unauthorized disclosure. Such situations may not only create adverse effects for individuals but may also cause severe consequences such as hefty regulatory fines, bad publicity, legal fees, and forensics. To avoid such predicaments, a privacy protected healthcare system is proposed in this study that protects the identity of an individual as well as detects vocal fold disorders. The privacy of the developed healthcare system is based on the proposed zero-watermarking algorithm, which embeds a watermark in a secret key instead of the signals to avoid the distortion in an audio sample. The identity is protected by the generation of its secret shares through visual cryptography. The generated shares are embedded by finding the patterns into the audio with the application of one-dimensional local binary pattern. The proposed zero-watermarking algorithm is evaluated by using audio samples taken from the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary voice disorder database. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed algorithm achieves imperceptibility and is reliable in its extraction of identity. In addition, the proposed algorithm does not affect the results of disorder detection and it is robust against noise attacks of various signal-to-noise ratios.
Keywords: E-healthcare; Privacy protection; Zero-watermarking; Visual cryptography; Local binary pattern; MFCC; SVM

Binh Bui, Charl de Villiers,
Carbon emissions management control systems: Field study evidence,
Journal of Cleaner Production,
Volume 166,
2017,
Pages 1283-1294,
ISSN 0959-6526,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.08.150.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0959652617318796)
Abstract: The paper examines the types and role of carbon management control systems by analysing in-depth interviews undertaken with 38 individuals from 30 organizations that use carbon management control systems. The paper identifies the different types of carbon controls, and the internal and external uses and objectives of controls. Carbon controls can be used to achieve compliance or improve performance, and organizations can focus on different objectives at different times. The findings suggest that emissions reductions do not occur without absolute (as opposed to intensity) reduction targets, management support, and resource allocation for carbon management. The findings further suggest that firms that want to improve performance or manage compliance costs effectively will require the integration of carbon controls into operational and strategic processes. A framework is developed that managers and researchers can use as an implementation guide or a research framework. The framework highlights three elements that were found to be critical to ensure control effectiveness, namely managerial communication, quality of information, and employee perceptions. The evidence suggests that communication of carbon information through appropriate channels and language, as well as high quality of carbon information are essential to ensure positive employee perceptions and buy-in, which will contribute to effective carbon reduction.
Keywords: Management control systems; Carbon emissions; Carbon controls; Carbon management control systems

Khalid Al-Amri, Yevgeniy Davydov,
Testing the effectiveness of ERM: Evidence from operational losses,
Journal of Economics and Business,
Volume 87,
2016,
Pages 70-82,
ISSN 0148-6195,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jeconbus.2016.07.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0148619516300376)
Abstract: Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) provides a novel approach to managing all risks faced by a firm as a portfolio. By forming a portfolio of risks firms can optimally choose strategies to hedge their overall risk. This study investigates ERM implementation across a broad spectrum of industries. In particular, we examine the effectiveness of ERM in improving firm internal controls by its impact on operational risk. Our findings suggest that ERM is effective in reducing both the frequency and severity of operational risk events. We find that firms with ERM programs on average experience a 63% reduction in the frequency of operational risk events and up to a 35% reduction in operational losses. The findings still hold after controlling for endogenous selection.
Keywords: Operational risk; Enterprise Risk Management; Corporate risk management

Yannis Arvanitis, Maxime Weigert,
Turning resource curse into development dividends in Guinea-Bissau,
Resources Policy,
Volume 53,
2017,
Pages 226-237,
ISSN 0301-4207,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.resourpol.2017.06.018.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0301420717301095)
Abstract: This paper explores the potential risks related to the resource curse for Guinea-Bissau. To date, the country is not yet a producer of extractive resources, but its potential is high and investments are materialising. Cognisant of this, the authorities set mining/extractive industries as a core tenet of the national strategic and operational plan laid out in 2015. Risks analysed in this paper relate on the one hand to potential resource curse effects (e.g., enclave and Dutch disease), and on the other to the challenge of public financial management (PFM) and transformation of revenue into investments. Using a governance and PFM prism as analysis framework, the paper finds gaps between the de jure and de facto governance framework related to extractives. Stemming from this, policy responses are looked at including key reforms in anticipation of extractive revenues such as strengthening of PFM systems and the budget process in particular, and investing in transparency through avenues combining bottom-up (e.g., local civil society) and top-down (e.g., international compacts) approaches. Steps aiming at welcoming international transparency regulation or developing realistic local content policies are also proposed.
Keywords: Resource Governance; Resource Curse; Public Financial Management; Africa

Katherine L. Taylor, Christopher S. Parshuram, Susan Ferri, Briseida Mema,
A description of the “event manager” role in resuscitations: A qualitative study of interviews and focus groups of resuscitation participants,
Journal of Critical Care,
Volume 39,
2017,
Pages 254-258,
ISSN 0883-9441,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcrc.2016.12.015.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0883944116303616)
Abstract: Purpose
Communication during resuscitation is essential for the provision of coordinated, effective care. Previously, we observed 44% of resuscitation communication originated from participants other than the physician team leader; 65% of which was directed to the team, exclusive of the team leader. We called this outer-loop communication.
Methods
This institutional review board–approved qualitative study used grounded theory analysis of focus groups and interviews to describe and define outer-loop communication and the role of “event manager” as an additional “leader.” Participants were health care staff involved in the medical management of resuscitations in a quaternary pediatric academic hospital.
Results
The following 3 domains were identified: the existence and rationale of outer-loop communication; the functions fulfilled by outer-loop communication; and the leadership and learning of event manager skills. The role was recognized by all team members and evolved organically as resuscitation complexity increased. A “good” manager has similar qualities to a “good team leader” with strong nontechnical skills. Event managers were not formally identified and no specific training had occurred.
Conclusions
“Outer-loop” communication supports resuscitation activities. An event manager gives direction to the team, coordinates activities, and supports the team leader. We describe a new role in resuscitation in light of structural organizational theory and cognitive load with a view to incorporating this structure into resuscitation training.
Keywords: Resuscitation; Health care team; Communication; Professional role; Process assessment (health care)

Sara Sartoli, Akbar Siami Namin,
Modeling adaptive access control policies using answer set programming,
Journal of Information Security and Applications,
Volume 44,
2019,
Pages 49-63,
ISSN 2214-2126,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jisa.2018.10.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214212618302862)
Abstract: Many of the existing management platforms such as pervasive computing systems implement policies that depend on dynamic operational environment changes. Existing formal approaches for automatically enforcing access control policies are primarily expressed in conventional logic programming, also known as monotonic logics, e.g., First Order Logic (FOL). The major issue with monotonic logics is that they are not devised to invalidate initial believes in the light of further observations. This limitation makes these traditional logical approaches less suitable for modeling and analyzing context-aware access control policies, where exceptional policies are introduced incrementally and adaptively during runtime. The inability to invalidate initial policies when an exception needs to be enforced might result in inconsistencies and violations that need to be resolved manually by human entities. To address the problems with conventional logical approaches and more importantly prevent such inconsistencies, this paper presents a non-monotonic logic-based reasoning scheme for modeling and analyzing adaptive access control policies. In the proposed formalism, unavailable context data and incomplete access control policies can be explicitly expressed. To do so, the paper distinguishes three kinds of policies: default, context-dependent and exception policies. The proposed formalism is based on Answer Set Programming (ASP), a non-monotonic logic programming language that allows elegant representation of unavailability of context data in adaptive systems. We devise non-monotonic policy inference rules such that, when exception policies are defined, they take precedence over default and context-dependent policies automatically. The results of two case studies are reported to demonstrate the feasibility of the proposed policy representation scheme compared to the Organizational-Based Access Control (OrBAC) model.
Keywords: Access control; Inference mechanism; Answer set programming; Policies; Exception handling; Conflict

Anthony Holder, Khondkar Karim, Karen (Jingrong) Lin, Robert Pinsker,
Do material weaknesses in information technology-related internal controls affect firms' 8-K filing timeliness and compliance?,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 22,
2016,
Pages 26-43,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2016.07.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S146708951630080X)
Abstract: Form 8-K reporting represents a different (and relatively unknown) information environment than annual 10-K filings. The current study takes advantage of a unique, comprehensive sample of 118,863 8-K filing event observations to investigate the association between firms' Form 8-K reporting timeliness/compliance with required reporting deadlines and their internal control weaknesses. In addition, the study investigates the association between firms' 8-K reporting and their information technology (IT) related internal control weaknesses. Overall, we find strong and robust evidence of a negative relation between the likelihood of the firm reporting a material internal control weakness and the timeliness and compliance of the firms' 8-K filings. We also find distinguishing effects of weaknesses involving IT-related controls. Given recent interest in IT-related controls and far-reaching reforms with stated objectives of improving disclosure timeliness, increasing the quality of internal controls and improving the quality of accounting information, we believe our results provide insights to accounting information systems academics, regulators, accounting standard setters and other interested observers.
Keywords: Form 8-K filing timeliness; Internal controls; Information technology; Regulation

Ameer Pichan, Mihai Lazarescu, Sie Teng Soh,
Towards a practical cloud forensics logging framework,
Journal of Information Security and Applications,
Volume 42,
2018,
Pages 18-28,
ISSN 2214-2126,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jisa.2018.07.008.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214212617305203)
Abstract: This paper exposes and explore the practical issues with the usability of log artefacts for digital forensics in cloud computing. Logs, providing detailed events of actions on a time scale have been a prime forensic artefact. However collection of logs for analysis, from a cloud computing environment is complex and challenging task, primarily due to the volatility, multi-tenancy, authenticity and physical storage locations of logs, which often results in jurisdictional challenges too. Diverse nature of logs, such as network logs, system logs, database logs and application logs produces additional complexity in the collection and analysis for investigative purposes. In addition there is no commonality in log architecture between cloud service providers, nor the log information fully meets the specific needs of forensic practitioners. In this paper we present a practical log architecture framework, analyse it from the perspective and business needs of forensic practitioners. We prove the framework on an ownCloud - a widely used open source platform. The log architecture has been assessed by validating it against the Association of Chief Police Officers Good Practice Guide for Computer-Based Electronic Evidence guidelines. Further validation has been done against the National Institute of Standards and Technology published report on Cloud Computing Forensic Challenges, i.e., NISTIR 8006. Our work helps the forensic examiners and law enforcement agencies in establishing confidence in log artefacts and easy interpretation of logs by presenting it in a user friendly way. Our work also helps the investigators to build a collective chain of evidence as well as the Cloud Service Providers to provision forensics enabled logging.
Keywords: Cloud computing; Cloud forensics; Digital forensics; Digital evidence; Logging; Cloud service provider; Cloud service user

James E. McNulty, Aigbe Akhigbe,
What do a bank’s legal expenses reveal about its internal controls and operational risk?,
Journal of Financial Stability,
Volume 30,
2017,
Pages 181-191,
ISSN 1572-3089,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jfs.2016.10.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S157230891630122X)
Abstract: Excessive (substantially above peer) litigation against a bank is indicative of operational risk because it often suggests failure to maintain a strong system of internal control. We examine the relation between bank performance and weak internal control using legal expense as a proxy. We find that legal expense is a strong determinant of loan losses and stock returns. Bank regulators should require reporting of legal expense on call reports to help identify institutions with weaknesses in internal control. Current reporting creates unnecessary information asymmetries because investors are not well informed about operational risk, leading to mispricing of bank securities.
Keywords: Keywords: Bank litigation; Bank performance; Internal controls; Operational risk

Mary Jane Lenard, Karin A. Petruska, Pervaiz Alam, Bing Yu,
Internal control weaknesses and evidence of real activities manipulation,
Advances in Accounting,
Volume 33,
2016,
Pages 47-58,
ISSN 0882-6110,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.adiac.2016.04.008.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0882611015300729)
Abstract: We examine whether US public firms that file internal control weakness (ICW) disclosure reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as part of the reporting requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes–Oxley (SOX) Act, exhibit higher levels of real activities manipulation (RM), compared to firms that do not file such reports. Using firm-level data for the post-SOX period, 2004–2010, we find a positive relationship between firms reporting internal control weaknesses and real activities manipulation. Further, those ICW-firms that use RM to beat earnings benchmarks have lower performance in the subsequent year. Our results also show that firms do not use discretionary accruals as a substitute for RM when they report internal control weaknesses. Overall, our findings suggest that ICW-firms are prone to using real activities manipulation as a form of earnings management. Our findings also have implications for audit quality as auditors need to gain a better understanding of how real activities manipulation influences the operations of the firm.
Keywords: Internal control weakness (ICW); Sarbanes–Oxley (SOX) Act; Real activities manipulation (RM); Accruals quality

John Grimm,
PKI: crumbling under the pressure,
Network Security,
Volume 2016, Issue 5,
2016,
Pages 5-7,
ISSN 1353-4858,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-4858(16)30046-0.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353485816300460)
Abstract: As UK enterprises continue to adopt different technologies to allow them to work faster, the Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) technology that underpins the security of and access to digital information is coming under increasing pressure. Cloud computing, virtualisation, and an increasingly mobile client base are notable examples of areas where new requirements for credentialing and strong authentication are stretching some enterprise PKIs beyond their original design. As UK enterprises adopt new technologies to allow them to work faster, the Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) technology that underpins the security of digital information is under pressure. Cloud computing, virtualisation, and an increasingly mobile client base are stretching some enterprise PKIs beyond their original design. John Grimm of Thales e-Security explains how recent research exposes the fragmented nature of current approaches to PKI, and highlights a need for increased investment.

Grzegorz Spyra, William J. Buchanan, Elias Ekonomou,
Sticky policies approach within cloud computing,
Computers & Security,
Volume 70,
2017,
Pages 366-375,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2017.07.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016740481730144X)
Abstract: This paper discusses a secure document sharing approach, which addresses confidentiality, integrity and authenticity concerns related to cloud-based data sharing. This research is focused on a secure construct that would integrate with other cloud ready standards and products for data protection. Sticky policies, recently considered as one of the preferred cloud data protection techniques, are here combined with standardized OOXML data package. The defined model leverages the Identity Based Encryption (IBE) scheme to attach sticky policies to the data. This paper also shows several security features and functions that are suitable for secure data sharing in the cloud. Technologies used for proposed construction are not new, therefore only their unique combination with AES key derived from XACML sticky policy via IBE and OOXML wrapper constitutes novelty of this research.
Keywords: IRM; Sticky policies; IBE; Cloud security; XACML; Cryptography

Warwick Funnell, Valerio Antonelli, Raffaele D'Alessio,
Accounting and psychiatric power in Italy: The royal insane hospital of Turin in the 19th century,
Critical Perspectives on Accounting,
Volume 61,
2019,
Pages 1-21,
ISSN 1045-2354,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpa.2018.08.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1045235418302636)
Abstract: This paper identifies the importance of accounting practices in the successful operation of the Royal Insane Hospital of Turin, prior to the Italian unification, to show the importance of the lunatic asylum to our understanding of the way in which power is sustained by the State and the dependence of this process on the information and discourses created by accounting practices. The study is informed by insights from Michel Foucault's work on lunatic asylums and psychiatric power. Accounting practices of the Royal Insane Hospital of Turin allowed the State as a major contributor to the funding of the asylum to control and monitor the cost of providing the necessary facilities and care for patients. Accounting allowed the hospital to be managed more efficiently which, most importantly, allowed the hospital to provide the support and facilities which were essential for creating the environment required for new medical practices in the treatment of the mentally unwell at a time when the role of doctors was becoming increasingly important. Accounting is also shown to have played a prominent role in supporting the political and social legitimation of the institution and its claim for public and private support. Critical to this process was the social and political importance of the statistics produced by the doctors of the lunatic asylum.
Keywords: Lunatic asylum; Medical statistics; Foucault; Accounting

Michael Werner,
Financial process mining - Accounting data structure dependent control flow inference,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 25,
2017,
Pages 57-80,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2017.03.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089516300264)
Abstract: The increasing integration of computer technology for the processing of business transactions and the growing amount of financially relevant data in organizations create new challenges for external auditors. The availability of digital data opens up new opportunities for innovative audit procedures. Process mining can be used as a novel data analysis technique to support auditors in this context. Process mining algorithms produce process models by analyzing recorded event logs. Contemporary general purpose mining algorithms commonly use the temporal order of recorded events for determining the control flow in mined process models. The presented research shows how data dependencies related to the accounting structure of recorded events can be used as an alternative to the temporal order of events for discovering the control flow. The generated models provide accurate information on the control flow from an accounting perspective and show a lower complexity compared to those generated using timestamp dependencies. The presented research follows a design science research approach and uses three different real world data sets for evaluation purposes.
Keywords: Process mining; Financial audits; Journal entries; Business process intelligence; Business process modeling; Control flow inference; Design science research; Enterprise resource planning systems

Mahdi Alizadeh, Xixi Lu, Dirk Fahland, Nicola Zannone, Wil M.P. van der Aalst,
Linking data and process perspectives for conformance analysis,
Computers & Security,
Volume 73,
2018,
Pages 172-193,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2017.10.010.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404817302262)
Abstract: The detection of data breaches has become a major challenge for most organizations. The problem lies in the fact that organizations often lack proper mechanisms to control and monitor users' activities and their data usage. Although several auditing approaches have been proposed to assess the compliance of actual executed behavior, existing approaches focus on either checking data accesses against security policies (data perspective) or checking user activities against the activities needed to conduct business processes (process perspective). Analyzing user behavior from these perspectives independently may not be sufficient to expose security incidents. In particular, security incidents may remain undetected or diagnosed incorrectly. This paper proposes a novel auditing approach that reconciles the data and process perspectives, thus enabling the identification of a large range of deviations. In particular, we analyze and classify deviations with respect to the intended purpose of data and the context in which data are used, and provide a novel algorithm to identify non-conforming user behavior. The approach has been implemented in the open source framework ProM and was evaluated through both controlled experiments and a case study using real-life event data. The results show that the approach is able to accurately identify deviations in both data usage and control-flow, while providing the purpose and context of the identified deviations.
Keywords: Auditing; Compliance checking; Conformance checking; Process mining; Alignments; Multi-perspective analysis

Faten Ben Bouheni, Abdoulkarim Idi Cheffou, Fredj Jawadi,
Analyzing the governance structure of French banking groups,
Research in International Business and Finance,
Volume 44,
2018,
Pages 40-48,
ISSN 0275-5319,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ribaf.2017.05.016.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0275531917302453)
Abstract: We analyze the governance structure of three main French banking groups (BNP Paribas, Crédit Agricole, and Société Générale) in the context of the global financial crisis. To this end, We, first, show the heterogeneity within the ownership structures of these three banks, which points differences with regard to performance among these banks. Second, we underscore the importance of institutional investors in stimulating banking growth. Finally, we note that the high number of independent directors on the boards of directors of BNP Paribas and Société Générale as well as the use of incentive pay in executive compensation might explain the excess risk taking of these banks.
Keywords: Board of directors; Ownership structure; Incentive pay; Bank; Financial crisis

Galina Baader, Helmut Krcmar,
Reducing false positives in fraud detection: Combining the red flag approach with process mining,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 31,
2018,
Pages 1-16,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2018.03.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S146708951630077X)
Abstract: Fraud detection often includes analyzing large datasets of enterprise resource planning systems to locate irregularities. Analysis of the datasets often results in a large number of false positives, that is, entries wrongly identified as fraud. The aim of our research is to reduce the number of false positives by combining the red flag-based approach with process mining. The red flag approach presents hints for unusual behavior, whereas process mining reconstructs and visualizes the as-is business process from the underlying dataset. The combination of these two techniques allows for identification and subsequent visualization of possible fraudulent process instances with the corresponding red flags. We exemplarily applied our new approach to the purchase-to-pay business process to successfully identify 15 of 31 fraud cases in our dataset. Our false positive rate was 0.37%, which is considerably lower than rates reported in similar research papers.
Keywords: Fraud detection; Red flags; Process mining; Fraud detection patterns

David B. Bryan,
Organized labor, audit quality, and internal control,
Advances in Accounting,
Volume 36,
2017,
Pages 11-26,
ISSN 0882-6110,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.adiac.2016.09.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0882611016301079)
Abstract: This study investigates whether labor union strength is associated with the quality of audits and internal control. Labor unions have reason to demand high quality audits and strong systems of internal control because they rely on financial information in collective bargaining negotiations. However, organized labor creates incentives for managers to procure lower quality audits and provide weaker internal control in order to hold greater influence over the content of the financial information that unions receive. I provide evidence that union strength is associated with higher audit quality and better internal control. Specifically, I find that union strength is associated with higher audit fees, fewer audit failures, and fewer material weaknesses.
Keywords: Organized labor; Labor unions; Audit fees; Restatements; Material weaknesses

Chu Yeong Lim, Margaret Woods, Christopher Humphrey, Jean Lin Seow,
The paradoxes of risk management in the banking sector,
The British Accounting Review,
Volume 49, Issue 1,
2017,
Pages 75-90,
ISSN 0890-8389,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bar.2016.09.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0890838916300361)
Abstract: This paper uses empirical evidence to examine the operational dynamics and paradoxical nature of risk management systems in the banking sector. It demonstrates how a core paradox of market versus regulatory demands and an accompanying variety of performance, learning and belonging paradoxes underlie evident tensions in the interaction between front and back office staff in banks. Organisational responses to such paradoxes are found to range from passive to proactive, reflecting differing organisational, departmental and individual risk culture(s), and performance management systems. Nonetheless, a common feature of regulatory initiatives designed to secure a more structurally independent risk management function is that they have failed to rectify a critical imbalance of power - with the back office control functions continuing to be dominated by front office trading and investment functions. Ultimately, viewing the 'core' of risk management systems as a series of connected paradoxes rather than a set of assured, robust practices, requires a fundamental switch in emphasis away from a normative, standards-based approach to risk management to one which gives greater recognition to its behavioural dimensions.
Keywords: Risk management; Paradox theory; Power imbalance; Regulation; Behavioural; Three lines of defence

Nghi Huynh, Marc Frappier, Amel Mammar, Régine Laleau, Jules Desharnais,
A formal validation of the RBAC ANSI 2012 standard using B,
Science of Computer Programming,
Volume 131,
2016,
Pages 76-93,
ISSN 0167-6423,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scico.2016.04.011.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016764231630020X)
Abstract: We validate the RBAC ANSI 2012 standard using the B method. Numerous problems are identified: logical errors, inconsistencies, ambiguities, typing errors, missing preconditions, invariant violation, inappropriate specification notation. A clean version of the standard written in the B notation is proposed. We argue that the ad hoc mathematical notation used in the standard is inappropriate and we propose that a more methodological and tool-supported approach must definitely be used for writing standards, in order to avoid the issues identified in the paper. Human reviewing is insufficient to produce error-free international standards.
Keywords: Role-Based Access Control; B method; Invariant preservation

Rania El-Gazzar, Eli Hustad, Dag H. Olsen,
Understanding cloud computing adoption issues: A Delphi study approach,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 118,
2016,
Pages 64-84,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2016.04.061.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016412121630036X)
Abstract: This research paper reports on a Delphi study focusing on the most important issues enterprises are confronted with when making cloud computing (CC) adoption decisions. We had 34 experts from different domain backgrounds participated in a Delphi panel. The panelists were IT and CC specialists representing a heterogeneous group of clients, providers and academics, divided into three subpanels. The Delphi procedure comprised three stages: brainstorming, narrowing down and ranking. The panelists identified 55 issues of concerns in the first stage, which were analyzed and grouped into 10 categories: security, strategy, legal and ethical, IT governance, migration, culture, business, awareness, availability and impact. The top 18 issues for each subpanel were ranked, and a moderate intrapanel consensus was obtained. Additionally, 16 follow-up interviews were conducted with the experts to get a deeper understanding of the issues and why certain issues were more significant than others. The findings indicate that security, strategy and legal and ethical issues are the most important. The discussion resulted in highlighting certain inhibitors and drivers for CC adoption into a framework. The paper is concluded with key recommendations with focus on change management, competence and maturity to inform decision-makers in CC adoption decisions.
Keywords: Cloud computing; Adoption; Delphi method; Decision-making; IT outsourcing; Snowden effect; Cloud computing adoption drivers; Cloud computing adoption inhibitors

Gillian Cornish, Vlado Vivoda,
Myanmar’s extractive industries: An institutional and regulatory assessment,
The Extractive Industries and Society,
Volume 3, Issue 4,
2016,
Pages 1075-1083,
ISSN 2214-790X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.exis.2016.08.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214790X16300971)
Abstract: Myanmar is undergoing rapid political, economic and social transition. This paper examines the regulatory governance of Myanmar’s extractive industries amidst this reform process. Based on the literature review, the paper develops an evaluative framework for assessing regulatory governance in the extractive industries, which includes six criteria: (1) clarity of roles and objectives; (2) stability and predictability; (3) participation; (4) capacity; (5) autonomy; and (6) transparency and accountability. The regulatory governance of Myanmar’s extractive industries is evaluated against the criteria, using original qualitative data to illustrate the key issues and challenges. Overall, the country has made notable improvements in recent years. The out-dated regulatory framework that has governed Myanmar’s extractive resources during military rule is transitioning to a framework that may enable improved industry practice and lead to responsible investment. However, reform processes of this scale cannot materialise over a short timeframe. The paper identifies priority area for the government in order to shift away from hitherto dominant norms and practice.
Keywords: Myanmar; Extractive industries; Governance; Regulation; Reform

Joon B. Suh, Rebecca Nicolaides, Richard Trafford,
The effects of reducing opportunity and fraud risk factors on the occurrence of occupational fraud in financial institutions,
International Journal of Law, Crime and Justice,
Volume 56,
2019,
Pages 79-88,
ISSN 1756-0616,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijlcj.2019.01.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1756061618302180)
Abstract: Internal fraud has been attributed as one of the contributing factors for serious banking crises. Given that opportunity is the pre-eminent cause of white-collar crime, this study attempts to measure the relationships between the perceived ‘opportunity reduction’ and other fraud risk factors with regard to the ‘likelihood of fraud occurrence’ in financial institutions. For analysis, the study gathered 395 survey responses from South Korean financial sector. The results of logistic regressions of the study highlight that how to operate control mechanisms combining prevention and deterrence measures (the qualitative aspect of internal control), is more important for preventing fraud than the mere existence of many anti-fraud controls. In addition, the study discovers that the employees of the Korean financial institutions view that the risk of management override of controls is a more critical risk than collusion in their organization.
Keywords: Collusion; Financial institution; Fraud risk; Management override; Occupational fraud; Opportunity

Mohamad Gharib, Paolo Giorgini,
Information quality requirements engineering with STS-IQ,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 107,
2019,
Pages 83-100,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2018.11.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584918302313)
Abstract: Context
Information Quality (IQ) is particularly important for organizations: they depend on information for managing their daily tasks and relying on low-quality information may negatively influence their overall performance. Despite this, the literature shows that most software development approaches do not consider IQ requirements during the system design, which leaves the system open to different kinds of vulnerabilities.
Objective
The main objective of this research is proposing a framework for modeling and analyzing IQ requirements for Socio-Technical Systems (STS).
Method
We propose STS-IQ, a goal-oriented framework for modeling and analyzing IQ requirements in their social and organizational context since the early phases of the system design. The framework extends and refines our previous work, and it consists of: (i) a modeling language that provides concepts and constructs for modeling IQ requirements; (ii) a set of analysis techniques that support the verification of the correctness and consistency of the IQ requirements model; (iii) a mechanism for deriving the final IQ specifications in terms of IQ policies; (iv) a methodology to assist software engineers during the system design; and (v) a CASE tool, namely STS-IQ Tool.
Result
We demonstrated the applicability, usefulness, and scalability of the modeling and reasoning techniques within a stock market case study, and we also evaluated the usability and utility of the framework with end-users.
Conclusion
We conclude that the STS-IQ framework supports the modeling and analysis of IQ requirements, and also the derivation of precise IQ specifications in terms of IQ policies. Therefore, we believe it has potential in practice.
Keywords: Information quality requirements; Goal-oriented requirements engineering; GORE; Conceptual modelling; Framework

Shadi A. Aljawarneh, Ali Alawneh, Reem Jaradat,
Cloud security engineering: Early stages of SDLC,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 74,
2017,
Pages 385-392,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2016.10.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X16303788)
Abstract: Security vulnerabilities and defects are results of poorly constructed software that can lead to easy exploitation by the cyber criminals. A large number of Cloud software systems are facing security threats, and even the sophisticated security tools and mechanisms are not able to detect it. Such prevailing problem necessitates the monitoring and controlling of the software development process and its maintenance. Security is considered to be one of the nonfunctional requirements that have significant effect on the architectural designing of the Cloud Software as a Service (SaaS). In addition, there is prevalence of differential views between the two software engineering concepts, i.e., conventional and contemporary and then this presents a significant challenge for the software development team to deal with security at the implementation and maintenance stage of the SDLC. Thus, we have discussed a real world case study includes 103 failed real cases that were generated manually or automatically by real applications through various testing techniques and we have illustrated some preliminary results. The evaluation results showed appearance of a significant number of security vulnerabilities in the early stages of Cloud Software/Service Development Life Cycle (CSDLC). Hence, this needs to be maintained in advance. Based on such results, this paper presents a generic framework to deal with such security at the early stages of the CSDLC. This framework aims at adding an extra security level at the early stages of the CSDLC, which has been further illustrated by a case study showing the applicability of the framework.
Keywords: Software engineering; Cloud security; SaaS; Architectural decisions; Applicability; Security vulnerabilities

Hans Jochen Scholl, Manuel Pedro Rodríguez Bolívar,
Regulation as both enabler of technology use and global competitive tool: The Gibraltar case,
Government Information Quarterly,
Volume 36, Issue 3,
2019,
Pages 601-613,
ISSN 0740-624X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.giq.2019.05.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0740624X1830594X)
Abstract: Distributed ledger technologies (DLTs) such as Blockchain appear to have disruptive economic potential to traditional finance-sector and non-financial markets as the success of crypto currencies demonstrates. While traditional financial and securities markets are highly regulated, DLT transactions and exchanges have so far widely remained unregulated, which potentially poses major threats to individual investors and, via money laundering, terrorist financing, and tax evasion, to society at large. Governments have been taking different approaches to monitoring and regulating the fledgling DLT provision arena. However, the small jurisdiction of Gibraltar, an affluent self-governed and self-financed British overseas territory with a population of 34,000 at the Southern tip of the Iberian Peninsula has taken a proactive approach. What makes this case stand out is that Gibraltar is not only is the first jurisdiction worldwide to regulate general DLT provision, but it is rather using the regulation as a competitive tool and a means for creating new public value. The study inquires the potential benefits and challenges to this particular approach to DLT provision regulation, and it investigates and presents the various facets of public value generation, which might serve as a poster child for fast and smart regulation in the digital age.

J.D. Ultra, S. Pancho-Festin,
A simple model of separation of duty for access control models,
Computers & Security,
Volume 68,
2017,
Pages 69-80,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2017.03.012.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404817300652)
Abstract: The principle of separation of duty is widely studied in the literature. Techniques for enforcing separation of duty (SD) policies fall under three categories, namely: static, dynamic and history-based separation of duty. Static SD is very limited in terms of its applicability and the use case it supports. In contrast, models that enforce SD dynamically have richer semantics therefore providing support for a wider number of SD policies. However, the use cases they support may be more than what typical systems require. The generality in these approaches makes them more costly and complicated to implement. This paper proposes a formal model of separation of duty that captures a certain type of separation of duty policies. The model is accessible such that one could easily incorporate it into existing access control models that do not yet have interfaces for creation and enforcement of separation of duty policies. More concretely, we described how our model was incorporated into the Role-based Access Control (RBAC) model to extend its separation of duty capabilities. We showed that this process was straightforward and the changes we have made in the RBAC specification were controlled and mostly additive ones. Moreover we also showed that under our model, one could also reduce the number of permissions that have to be managed in an access control system.
Keywords: Access control model; Separation of duty; Role-based access control; Formal model; Z specification language

Fatih Turkmen, Jerry den Hartog, Silvio Ranise, Nicola Zannone,
Formal analysis of XACML policies using SMT,
Computers & Security,
Volume 66,
2017,
Pages 185-203,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2017.01.009.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404817300135)
Abstract: The eXtensible Access Control Markup Language (XACML) has attracted significant attention from both industry and academia, and has become the de facto standard for the specification of access control policies. However, its XML-based verbose syntax and rich set of constructs make the authoring of XACML policies difficult and error-prone. Several automated tools have been proposed to analyze XACML policies before their actual deployment. However, most of the existing tools either cannot efficiently reason about non-Boolean attributes, which often appear in XACML policies, or restrict the analysis to a small set of properties. This work presents a policy analysis framework for the verification of XACML policies based on SAT modulo theories (SMT). We show how XACML policies can be encoded into SMT formulas, along with a query language able to express a variety of well-known security properties, for policy analysis. By being able to reason over non-Boolean attributes, our SMT-based policy analysis framework allows a fine-grained policy analysis while relieving policy authors of the burden of defining an appropriate level of granularity of the analysis. An evaluation of the framework shows that it is computationally efficient and requires less memory compared to existing approaches.
Keywords: XACML policy analysis; Logic encoding of policy analysis problems; First-order logic; Satisfiability modulo theories; Experimental evaluation

Tigran Avanesov, Yannick Chevalier, Michael Rusinowitch, Mathieu Turuani,
Intruder deducibility constraints with negation. Decidability and application to secured service compositions,
Journal of Symbolic Computation,
Volume 80, Part 1,
2017,
Pages 4-26,
ISSN 0747-7171,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsc.2016.07.008.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0747717116300438)
Abstract: We consider a problem of automated orchestration of security-aware services under additional constraints. The problem of finding a mediator to compose secured services has been reduced in previous works to the problem of solving deducibility constraints similar to those employed for cryptographic protocol analysis. We extend in this paper the mediator synthesis procedure (i.e. a solution for the orchestration problem) by allowing additional non-disclosure policies that express the fact that some data is not accessible to the mediator at a given point of its execution. We present a decision procedure that answers the question whether a mediator satisfying these policies can be effectively synthesized. The approach presented in this work extends the constraint solving procedure for cryptographic protocol analysis in a significant way as to be able to handle negation of deducibility constraints. It applies to all subterm convergent theories and therefore covers several interesting theories in formal security analysis including encryption, hashing, signature and pairing; it is also expressive enough for some RBAC policies. A variant of this procedure for Dolev Yao theory has been implemented in Cl-Atse, a protocol analysis tool based on constraint solving.
Keywords: Web services; Orchestration; Security policy; Separation of duty; Deducibility constraints; Cryptographic protocols; Formal methods; Automated verification; Synthesis

Christian Sturm, Jonas Scalanczi, Stefan Schönig, Stefan Jablonski,
A Blockchain-based and resource-aware process execution engine,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 100,
2019,
Pages 19-34,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2019.05.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X18327158)
Abstract: Business Process Management provides concepts for enterprises to design, document and execute their business processes. Involved artefacts establish the basis for a profound enhancement of processes, like performance improvements or a substantiate assignment of employees (resources) to tasks. These artefacts comprise process models for documentation purposes or Workflow Management Systems for executing processes. Those concepts are adopted well within single companies but are barely implemented for inter-organizational processes reasoned in a lack of trust between participating business partners. For instance, questions like who the host of the workflow engine is and thus have sovereignty over the process execution remains open. Besides expensive third parties, we believe that Blockchain Technology bears potential to solve the lack of trust due to automated consensus finding. We present a Blockchain-based process engine guaranteeing a tamper-proof execution, which is both, highly scalable regarding the size of process models as well as capable of considering employees captured in the organizational perspective of the process model. Comparable approaches suffer from lack of trustworthiness either, are not applicable for large process models, or do not include organizational concerns.
Keywords: Blockchain; Business process management; Process execution; Business process management system; Organizational perspective; Smart contract

Ameni Ben Fadhel, Domenico Bianculli, Lionel Briand,
A comprehensive modeling framework for role-based access control policies,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 107,
2015,
Pages 110-126,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2015.05.015.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121215001041)
Abstract: Prohibiting unauthorized access to critical resources and data has become a major requirement for enterprises; access control (AC) mechanisms manage requests from users to access system resources. One of the most used AC paradigms is role-based access control (RBAC), in which access rights are determined based on the user’s role. Many different types of RBAC policies have been proposed in the literature, each one accompanied by the corresponding extension of the original RBAC model. However, there is no unified framework that can be used to define all these types of policies in a coherent way, using a common model. In this paper we propose a model-driven engineering approach, based on UML and the Object Constraint Language (OCL), to enable the precise specification and verification of such policies. More specifically, we first present a taxonomy of the various types of RBAC policies proposed in the literature. We also propose the GemRBAC model, a generalized model for RBAC that includes all the entities required to define the classified policies. This model is a conceptual model that can also serve as data model to operationalize data collection and verification. Lastly, we formalize the classified policies as OCL constraints on the GemRBAC model.
Keywords: Role-based access control; Modeling; Survey

Steve Mansfield-Devine,
The dangers lurking in smart buildings,
Computer Fraud & Security,
Volume 2015, Issue 11,
2015,
Pages 15-18,
ISSN 1361-3723,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-3723(15)30103-2.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361372315301032)
Abstract: The Internet of Things (IoT) is finally upon us. And one of the areas in which we're seeing it deployed is in so-called ‘smart’ buildings, where systems such as lighting, heating and physical security are acquiring Internet connections and remote monitoring, reporting and management capabilities. But as Colin Tankard, managing director of Digital Pathways, explains in this interview – security isn't always high on the list when these systems are being designed and implemented.

Yun Dai, Morrison Handley-Schachler,
A Fundamental Weakness in Auditing: The Need for a Conspiracy Theory,
Procedia Economics and Finance,
Volume 28,
2015,
Pages 1-6,
ISSN 2212-5671,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S2212-5671(15)01074-6.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212567115010746)
Abstract: The existence of a conspiracy may make the detection of a fraud by an auditor less probable, because of the ability of conspirators to falsify apparently independent items of evidence. At the same time, the existence of a conspiracy makes detection by management or other agencies more probable because of the chance that one of the conspirators or someone who has been approached to join the conspiracy will report the fraud. However, the discovery of major conspiracies to commit fraud and financial crime in companies, such as Enron and the Madoff Investment Securities case, where the auditor was himself convicted as one of the conspirators, suggests the need to re-evaluate the reasonability of asking auditors to assess the risk of a criminal conspiracy existing and the probability of financial crimes committed by the conspirators remaining undetected. This paper proposes a model for the auditor to use in making such an assessment, thereby enhancing the auditor's assessment of the reliability of the overall audit.
Keywords: Auditing; Conspiracy Theory ;

Wei Ye, Ruixuan Li, Xiwu Gu, Yuhua Li, Kunmei Wen,
Role mining using answer set programming,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 55,
2016,
Pages 336-343,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2014.10.018.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X14002118)
Abstract: With the increasing adoption of role-based access control (RBAC) in business security, role mining technology has been widely applied to aid the process of migrating a non-RBAC system to an RBAC system. However, because it is hard to deal with a variety of constraint conflicts at the same time, none of existing role mining algorithms can simultaneously satisfy various constraints that usually describe organizations’ security and business requirements. To extend the ability of role mining technology, this paper proposes a novel role mining approach using answer set programming (ASP) that complies with constraints and meets various optimization objectives, named constrained role miner (CRM). Essentially, the idea is that ASP is an approach to declarative problem solving. Thus, either to discover RBAC configurations or to deal with conflicts between constraints, ASP programs do not need to specify how answers are computed. Finally, we demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of our approach through experimental results.
Keywords: RBAC; Constraint; Role mining; Answer set programming

Youseef Alotaibi, Fei Liu,
A novel secure business process modeling approach and its impact on business performance,
Information Sciences,
Volume 277,
2014,
Pages 375-395,
ISSN 0020-0255,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2014.02.088.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025514001947)
Abstract: The existing information system (IS) development methods do not meet the requirements to resolve security-related IS problems and they fail to provide for the successful integration of security and systems engineering during all development process stages. Security should be considered during the whole software development process and the requirements specifications should be identified. This paper aims to propose an integrated security and IS engineering approach in all software development process stages by using the i* language. The proposed framework is divided into three separate parts: modeling the business environment, modeling the information technology system and modeling IS security. A mobile phone order management process in a telecommunication company is used as a case study to validate the proposed framework. An empirical analysis based on data from 130 business and IT managers is used to evaluate and investigate if it has an impact on business process performance. The results were subjected to reliability and validity analyses. Bivariate correlation analysis was used to test four hypotheses. The results show that considering security IS goals in the whole system development process can have a positive influence on system implementation, better meet business expectations and positively impact on business process performance.
Keywords: Information system security; Software development process; Business process modeling (PM); Business performance; Case study; Survey research

Christopher Bailey, David W. Chadwick, Rogério de Lemos,
Self-adaptive federated authorization infrastructures,
Journal of Computer and System Sciences,
Volume 80, Issue 5,
2014,
Pages 935-952,
ISSN 0022-0000,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcss.2014.02.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022000014000154)
Abstract: Authorization infrastructures are an integral part of any network where resources need to be protected. As networks expand and organizations start to federate access to their resources, authorization infrastructures become increasingly difficult to manage. In this paper, we explore the automatic adaptation of authorization assets (policies and subject access rights) in order to manage federated authorization infrastructures. We demonstrate adaptation through a Self-Adaptive Authorization Framework (SAAF) controller that is capable of managing policy based federated role/attribute access control authorization infrastructures. The SAAF controller implements a feedback loop to monitor the authorization infrastructure in terms of authorization assets and subject behavior, analyze potential adaptations for handling malicious behavior, and act upon authorization assets to control future authorization decisions. We evaluate a prototype of the SAAF controller by simulating malicious behavior within a deployed federated authorization infrastructure (federation), demonstrating the escalation of adaptation, along with a comparison of SAAF to current technology.
Keywords: Self-adaptation; Authorization; Policy management; Identity management; Autonomic security; RBAC; ABAC; SAML; PERMIS

S. Parkinson, V. Somaraki, R. Ward,
Auditing file system permissions using association rule mining,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 55,
2016,
Pages 274-283,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2016.02.027.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417416300586)
Abstract: Identifying irregular file system permissions in large, multi-user systems is challenging due to the complexity of gaining structural understanding from large volumes of permission information. This challenge is exacerbated when file systems permissions are allocated in an ad-hoc manner when new access rights are required, and when access rights become redundant as users change job roles or terminate employment. These factors make it challenging to identify what can be classed as an irregular file system permission, as well as identifying if they are irregular and exposing a vulnerability. The current way of finding such irregularities is by performing an exhaustive audit of the permission distribution; however, this requires expert knowledge and a significant amount of time. In this paper a novel method of modelling file system permissions which can be used by association rule mining techniques to identify irregular permissions is presented. This results in the creation of object-centric model as a by-product. This technique is then implemented and tested on Microsoft’s New Technology File System permissions (NTFS). Empirical observations are derived by making comparisons with expert knowledge to determine the effectiveness of the proposed technique on five diverse real-world directory structures extracted from different organisations. The results demonstrate that the technique is able to correctly identify irregularities with an average accuracy rate of 91%, minimising the reliance on expert knowledge. Experiments are also performed on synthetic directory structures which demonstrate an accuracy rate of 95% when the number of irregular permissions constitutes 1% of the total number. This is a significant contribution as it creates the possibility of identifying vulnerabilities without prior knowledge of how to file systems permissions are implemented within a directory structure.
Keywords: Access control; Auditing; Association rule mining

Byunghun Lee, Dae-Kyoo Kim, Hyosik Yang, Hyuksoo Jang,
Role-based access control for substation automation systems using XACML,
Information Systems,
Volume 53,
2015,
Pages 237-249,
ISSN 0306-4379,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2015.01.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306437915000174)
Abstract: There has been an increasing need for accessing data of internal equipment and devices of a substation system from external systems as power grids evolve. This has also introduced growing concerns on data security. In response to the concerns, IEC 62351 has proposed role-based access control (RBAC) for substation automation. In this work, we present a novel approach for implementing RBAC based on IEC 62351 for substation automation using eXtensible Access Control Markup Language (XACML). We integrate the approach with IEC 61850 by extending Abstract Communication Service Interface (ACSI), Manufacturing Message Specification (MMS), and System Configuration Language (SCL). A major advantage of the approach is that it fully conforms to both IEC 61850 and IEC 62351 and highly compatible with SCL as both XACML and SCL are XML-based. We implement the approach using OpenIEC61850 which is an open source library for ACSI services and demonstrate the implementation.
Keywords: RBAC; Smart grid; Substation automation; XACML

Elena Dobre, Daniela Petrascu, Madalina Botina,
Risks Management Profile in Local Public Services Administration,
Procedia Economics and Finance,
Volume 27,
2015,
Pages 204-208,
ISSN 2212-5671,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S2212-5671(15)00991-0.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212567115009910)
Abstract: This paper aims improving local public services practices, at least, for our national local communities’ administration. Such possibilities may arise by case study regarding delegated management of a public entity charged with central heating public service, turned in private company. Paper treats local public finance and reveals the risks of defection management and even fraud risk by periodical re-negotiating of significant contracts with related parties and internal controls deficiency. The moral value of case study is economics considerations over legal considerations prevalence by applying principle of correlating demands with resources, not upside-down. Romanian local public administration need develop good practices of public acquisition of delegated management contracts. It's about adequate evaluation frameworks combining in a competent and responsible manner quantitative and qualitative evaluations. Legal department should be more involved in monitoring law application. Also, personnel of internal controls system should be more involved.
Keywords: Municipality; Local Heating Supplier; Risk Profile; Public Finance.

Daniel Calegari, Till Mossakowski, Nora Szasz,
Heterogeneous verification in the context of model driven engineering,
Science of Computer Programming,
Volume 126,
2016,
Pages 3-30,
ISSN 0167-6423,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scico.2016.02.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167642316000472)
Abstract: In some cases it may be useful to represent a problem in many logical domains, since they provide different perspectives for addressing formal verification. However, the maintenance of multiple representations in separate domains can be expensive if there is neither automated assistance nor a clear formal relation between these domains. We have addressed this problem in the context of Model-Driven Engineering (MDE). We defined solid foundations of a theoretical environment for formal verification using heterogeneous verification approaches. The environment is based on the Theory of Institutions which provides a sound basis for representing MDE elements and a way for specifying translations from these elements to other domains used for verification. In this paper we present how this environment can be supported in practice within the Heterogeneous Tool Set (Hets). Hets supports heterogeneous specifications and provides capabilities for monitoring the overall correctness of a heterogeneous proof. We first extend the theoretical environment with the inclusion of an institution for the Object Constraint Language (OCL), and then we define semantic-preserving translations from the OCL-constrained MDE elements to a core language of Hets. With this we can verify basic properties of our specification, and then use the existent connections between logical domains within Hets for broadening the spectrum of domains in which complementary verification properties can be addressed.
Keywords: Verification; Formal methods; Model-Driven Engineering; Theory of Institutions; Heterogeneous Tool Set

Safaà Hachana, Nora Cuppens-Boulahia, Frédéric Cuppens,
Mining a high level access control policy in a network with multiple firewalls,
Journal of Information Security and Applications,
Volume 20,
2015,
Pages 61-73,
ISSN 2214-2126,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jisa.2014.10.010.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S221421261400146X)
Abstract: A policy mining approach that aims to automatically extract a high level of abstraction policy from the rules configured on a firewall has been recently proposed (Hachana et al., 2013). This technique is likely to considerably facilitate firewall management. However, protecting the information system of a business organization usually requires the enforcement of more than one firewall. In this paper, we augment the policy mining approach by an additional processing for a network access control policy mining. We develop the problem of integration of Net-RBAC (Hachana, 2014) policies resulting from policy mining over several firewalls in order to mine a high level network policy. Moreover, we show how to verify security properties related to the deployment consistency over the firewalls. We illustrate the network policy mining approach by a realistic example, and we experimentally evaluate the performance of our merger algorithms.
Keywords: Access control; Network security; Policy mining; Role mining; Multiple firewalls; Net-RBAC

Sangsig Kim, Dae-Kyoo Kim, Lunjin Lu, Eunjee Song,
Building hybrid access control by configuring RBAC and MAC features,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 56, Issue 7,
2014,
Pages 763-792,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2014.02.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584914000378)
Abstract: Context
Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) and Mandatory Access Control (MAC) are widely used access control models. They are often used together in domains where both data integrity and information flow are concerned. However, there is little work on techniques for building hybrid access control of RBAC and MAC.
Objective
In this work, we present a systematic approach for developing a hybrid access control model using feature modeling with the aim of reducing development complexity and error-proneness.
Method
In the approach, RBAC and MAC are defined in terms of features based on partial inheritance. Features are then configured for specific access control requirements of an application. Configured features are composed homogeneously and heterogeneously to produce a hybrid access model for the application. The resulting hybrid model is then instantiated in the context of the application to produce an initial design model supporting both RBAC and MAC. We evaluate the approach using a hospital system and present its tool support.
Results
RBAC and MAC features that are specifically configured for the application are systematically incorporated into a design model. The heterogeneous features of RBAC and MAC are not only present in the resulting model, but also semantically composed for seamless integration of RBAC and MAC. Discharging the proof obligations of composition rules to the resulting model proves its correctness. The successful development of the prototype demonstrates its practicality.
Conclusion
Features in the access control domain are relatively small in size and are suitable to be defined as design building blocks. The formal definition of partial inheritance and composition methods in the presented approach enables precisely specifying access control features and feature configuration, which paves the way for systematic development of a hybrid access control model in an early development phase.
Keywords: Feature modeling; Hybrid access control; MAC; RBAC; UML

Jorge Saldivar, Carla Vairetti, Carlos Rodríguez, Florian Daniel, Fabio Casati, Rosa Alarcón,
Analysis and improvement of business process models using spreadsheets,
Information Systems,
Volume 57,
2016,
Pages 1-19,
ISSN 0306-4379,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2015.10.012.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306437915001921)
Abstract: Software in general is thoroughly analyzed before it is released to its users. Business processes often are not – at least not as thoroughly as it could be – before they are released to their users, e.g., employees or software agents. This paper ascribes this practice to the lack of suitable instruments for business process analysts, who design the processes, and aims to provide them with the necessary instruments to allow them to also analyze their processes. We use the spreadsheet paradigm to represent business process analysis tasks, such as writing metrics and assertions, running performance analysis and verification tasks, and reporting on the outcomes, and implement a spreadsheet-based tool for business process analysis. The results of two independent user studies demonstrate the viability of the approach.
Keywords: Business process analysis; Spreadsheets; Business process simulation

Craig Reinemeyer, Robbin Koenig, Peggy Anne Hawkins,
A Controlled Safety Study of Elevated Dosages of Trimethoprim Plus Sulfadiazine in Mature Horses,
Journal of Equine Veterinary Science,
Volume 34, Issue 5,
2014,
Pages 626-631,
ISSN 0737-0806,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jevs.2013.12.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0737080613009295)
Abstract: A novel, proprietary, oral suspension of trimethoprim plus sulfadiazine (TMP/SDZ) had no serious adverse effects on clinical, laboratory, or pathologic parameters of mature horses when administered at up to five times the intended combined dosage of 24 mg/kg twice daily for 30 consecutive days. Loose feces was the most common observation that was likely related to TMP/SDZ treatment, and the incidence of loose feces was greater in groups treated with higher dosages of TMP/SDZ. However, all episodes were self-limiting, and no horses were treated for loose feces.
Keywords: Sulfadiazine; Trimethoprim; Safety; Horse; Streptococcus zooepidemicus

Dingyu Yang, Jian Cao, Sai Wu, Jie Wang,
Progressive online aggregation in a distributed stream system,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 102,
2015,
Pages 146-157,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2014.11.027.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121214002556)
Abstract: Interactive query processing aims at generating approximate results with minimum response time. However, it is quite difficult for a batch-oriented processing system to progressively provide cumulatively accurate results in the context of a distributed environment. MapReduce Online extends the MapReduce framework to support online aggregation, but it is hindered by its processing speed in keeping up with ongoing real-time data events. We deploy the online aggregation algorithm over S4, a scalable stream processing system that is inspired by the combined functionalities of MapReduce and Actor model. Our system applies an asynchronous message communication mechanism from actor model to support online aggregation. It can process large scale data stream with high concurrency in a short response time. In this system, we adopt a distributed weighted random sampling algorithm to solve biased distribution between different streams. Furthermore, a multi-level query processing topology is developed to reduce overlapped processing for multiple queries. Our system can provide continuous window aggregation with a confidence interval and error bound. We have implemented our system and conducted plentiful experiments over the TPC-H benchmark. A large number of experiments are carried out to demonstrate that by using our system, high-quality query results can be generated within a short response time and that the approach outperforms MapReduce Online on data streams.
Keywords: Online aggregation; Stream processing; Actor model

Nils Ulltveit-Moe, Vladimir Oleshchuk,
A novel policy-driven reversible anonymisation scheme for XML-based services,
Information Systems,
Volume 48,
2015,
Pages 164-178,
ISSN 0306-4379,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2014.05.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S030643791400091X)
Abstract: This paper proposes a reversible anonymisation scheme for XML messages that supports fine-grained enforcement of XACML-based privacy policies. Reversible anonymisation means that information in XML messages is anonymised, however the information required to reverse the anonymisation is cryptographically protected in the messages. The policy can control access down to octet ranges of individual elements or attributes in XML messages. The reversible anonymisation protocol effectively implements a multi-level privacy and security based approach, so that only authorised stakeholders can disclose confidential information up to the privacy or security level they are authorised for. The approach furthermore supports a shared secret based scheme, where stakeholders need to agree to disclose confidential information. Last, it supports time limited access to private or confidential information. This opens up for improved control of access to private or confidential information in XML messages used by a service oriented architecture. The solution provides horizontally scalable confidentiality protection for certain types of big data applications, like XML databases, secure logging and data retention repositories.
Keywords: Reversible anonymisation; Privacy; XML-encryption; XACML; Deanonymiser; Big data

Lau Lap Bann, Manmeet Mahinderjit Singh, Azman Samsudin,
Trusted Security Policies for Tackling Advanced Persistent Threat via Spear Phishing in BYOD Environment,
Procedia Computer Science,
Volume 72,
2015,
Pages 129-136,
ISSN 1877-0509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2015.12.113.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050915035747)
Abstract: With the advent of pervasive and ubiquitous mobile devices, Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) trend is steadily gaining traction amongst many corporations, in allowing the extensive utilization of mobile devices in handling work-related data. However, there are several drawbacks to this approach, one of which is the risks resulted from the occurrence of Advanced Persistent Threat (APT). The goal of APT is to exfiltrate and leak important and sensitive corporate information through exploitation of vulnerabilities within BYOD environment. This paper addresses the APT issue via spear phishing attacks within BYOD environment, through the mediation provided by security policies. The devising of Mandatory Access Control (MAC) security policies using ACPT includes the implementation of environment attributes along with the specification of proposed policy rules for organizations is proven to be the most suitable policy mechanism for BYOD environment. Guidelines in mitigating APT via spear phishing are briefly discussed as well.
Keywords: Security policy; Spear Phishing; Access Control Policy Tool (ACPT); OWASP risk rating methodology

MaryElla Gainor, Dennis Bline, Xiaochuan Zheng,
Teaching internal control through active learning,
Journal of Accounting Education,
Volume 32, Issue 2,
2014,
Pages 200-221,
ISSN 0748-5751,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaccedu.2014.03.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S074857511400027X)
Abstract: This teaching note presents the use of an in-class competition that actively engages students in learning about the basics of internal control in an organization. Student feedback and instructor’s observation suggest that this active learning approach is effective for three primary reasons: (1) it focuses on the student’s own personal experience resulting in the fact that students can more easily relate to the examples created by their peers; (2) it empowers the student; and (3) it creates a competitive, active-learning environment. This article provides a detailed description of an interactive lesson that innovatively guides introductory accounting students toward understanding the basic principles of internal control, a topic getting more and more important in AIS education in post-SOX era. Furthermore, the detailed materials at the end of the article provide ready-to-use teaching materials and related instructions to facilitate implementation.
Keywords: Active learning; Interactive; Internal control; In-class competition; Accounting education; AIS education

Enrique Mu, James Carroll,
Development of a fraud risk decision model for prioritizing fraud risk cases in manufacturing firms,
International Journal of Production Economics,
Volume 173,
2016,
Pages 30-42,
ISSN 0925-5273,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpe.2015.11.014.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925527315005137)
Abstract: Among the different risks a manufacturing firm faces, one of the most devastating may be caused by internal fraud. Corporate Fraud Investigation Units receive dozens of reports about possible fraud allegations annually. While all allegations should be addressed, it is not possible to investigate all cases immediately due to resource limitations. However, fraud may cause serious production and financial losses at any stage in the supply chain. Thus, it is necessary to find a method to prioritize the fraud risk of cases for the purpose of allocating resources and to determine how quickly they must be addressed. The Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) stands out as the most widely used prioritization methodology due to its intuitive simplicity and mathematical rigor. This study combines current SCM risk frameworks with extant fraud investigation literature and best-practices to develop an AHP ratings model for the prioritization of alleged fraud reports in a corporate setting, more specifically in the context of a large metals and mining manufacturing company.
Keywords: SCM risks; SCRM; Fraud investigation; Fraud prioritization; Fraud management

Cosmin Matiş, Răzvan Nistor,
New Strategies in the Management of Corporate Activities in BCR – ERSTE,
Procedia Economics and Finance,
Volume 15,
2014,
Pages 1146-1152,
ISSN 2212-5671,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S2212-5671(14)00570-X.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S221256711400570X)
Abstract: This study is based on analyzing the implementation of a new line of corporate activities in the Romanian Commercial Bank and it tries to identify the actions planned to be implemented in order to achieve its main objectives. The analysis presents the details of the implementation action plan, the possible solutions that have to be applied on a practical level regarding the new sales functions, sales responsibility, implementation of a new branch model, customer segmentation, streamline credit granting, separation of functions, the rating system and regional centralization. The authors consider that an important element for the study is the analysis of the above mentioned elements before and after the implementation of the new strategies. The conclusions reflect not only the possible outcomes of the action plan but also the general macroeconomic field where it should be implemented.
Keywords: implementation; sales function; streamline credit granting; branch model; separation of functions; customer segmentation; regional centralization.

Sandor Boyson,
Cyber supply chain risk management: Revolutionizing the strategic control of critical IT systems,
Technovation,
Volume 34, Issue 7,
2014,
Pages 342-353,
ISSN 0166-4972,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.technovation.2014.02.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166497214000194)
Abstract: Cyber supply chain risk management (CSCRM) is a new discipline designed to help IT executives address the challenges of the rapid globalization and outsourced diffusion of hardware and software systems. CSCRM is an integrative discipline combining elements of cybersecurity, supply chain management, and enterprise risk management into a new and powerful concept to exert strategic control over the end-to-end processes of the focal organization and its extended enterprise partners. This article provides a survey of the field, as well as a detailed analysis of the results of a four-year research project on CSCRM, conducted by the Robert H. Smith School of Business Supply Chain Management Center for the National Institute of Standards and Technology, that focused on the development of organizational assessment tools and a capability/maturity model for this emerging discipline.
Keywords: Cybersecurity; Risk management; Supply chain management

Marcin Leszczyński, Juergen Fell, Nikolai Axmacher,
Rhythmic Working Memory Activation in the Human Hippocampus,
Cell Reports,
Volume 13, Issue 6,
2015,
Pages 1272-1282,
ISSN 2211-1247,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.celrep.2015.09.081.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2211124715011353)
Abstract: Summary
Working memory (WM) maintenance is assumed to rely on a single sustained process throughout the entire maintenance period. This assumption, although fundamental, has never been tested. We used intracranial electroencephalography (EEG) recordings from the human hippocampus in two independent experiments to investigate the neural dynamics underlying WM maintenance. We observed periodic fluctuations between two different oscillatory regimes: Periods of “memory activation” were reflected by load-dependent alpha power reductions and lower levels of cross-frequency coupling (CFC). They occurred interleaved with periods characterized by load-independent high levels of alpha power and CFC. During memory activation periods, a relevant CFC parameter (load-dependent changes of the peak modulated frequency) correlated with individual WM capacity. Fluctuations between these two periods predicted successful performance and were locked to the phase of endogenous delta oscillations. These results show that hippocampal maintenance is a dynamic rather than constant process and depends critically on a hierarchy of oscillations.

Grose Chris, Kargidis Theodoros, Chouliaras Vasilios,
Corporate Governance in Practice. The Greek Case,
Procedia Economics and Finance,
Volume 9,
2014,
Pages 369-379,
ISSN 2212-5671,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S2212-5671(14)00038-0.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212567114000380)
Abstract: This study investigates the characteristics of corporate governance in Greece today as illustrated through a thorough analysis of the Corporate Governance Statements of all public companies in the Athens Stock Exchange. We attempt to highlight various characteristics of the enforcement of corporate governance rules in the everyday practice of corporations. We identify idiosyncratic factors pertaining in the Greek market that present interesting features in the global context. On average firms comply with internationally accepted Corporate Governance Codes, as they have been adopted in Greece by the Hellenic Federation of Enterprises (SEV), even though the number of firms that gradually develop their own Corporate Governance Codes is increasing. Greek firms appear to have surprisingly low percentages of CEO – Chairman of Board duality phenomena. On the other hand, in relation with other corporate governance best practices, we find the relative absence of committees other than the Audit Committee, which is compulsory, while the majority of firms are directed by small Boards of fewer than eight members. On the negative side we also document low presence of women in Boards and a high percentage of main stock holder family members on companies’ Boards. When examining the distribution between executive and non-executive members in Boards it is found that the majority of Boards consist of executive and non-executive members, whereas independent non-executive members are constrained within the limits set by Greek corporate governance legislation. Our analysis further highlights that even though corporate governance implementation has been introduced to the local market for only approximately ten years, firms and authorities tend to be relatively strict relative to the level of conformity with internationally accepted corporate governance legislation.
Keywords: Corporate governance; Board of directors; CEO duality; Law 3016; Audit Committee

Tracey Caldwell,
Taking agile development beyond software – what are the security risks?,
Network Security,
Volume 2015, Issue 12,
2015,
Pages 8-11,
ISSN 1353-4858,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-4858(15)30110-0.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353485815301100)
Abstract: The risks associated with developing software following agile methods have been a subject for discussion for some time and continue to evolve. And agile development methods are no longer just confined to software development. Tracey Caldwell highlights the risks arising from the agile approach – characterised by incremental, iterative work cadences – and addresses concerns that the customer or product owner focus of agile methods may compromise network security, as these major stakeholders are not generally prioritising security. The security risks associated with developing software following agile methods have been a subject for discussion for some time and continue to evolve. In addition, agile development methods are no longer just confined to software development and may be used to develop any number of web or IT-dependent products and services too that are interdependent with the network security of an enterprise.

Anna Lan,
Transport Orientated Development and Commercialization of Underground Space in China: Trends in Shanghai, Tianjin and Shenzhen,
Procedia Engineering,
Volume 165,
2016,
Pages 555-563,
ISSN 1877-7058,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.proeng.2016.11.751.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877705816341121)
Abstract: In China, there is significant interest in underground planning projects from City Governments, metro authorities and private developers. The success of commercialized underground space, when tied to metro developments, is dependent on the programming, design, operations, financial and long-term management model of its operators. This research makes qualitative comparisons in the underground development trends across the Chinese metropolitans of Shanghai, Shenzhen and Tianjin, three geographically, historically and climatically diverse cities with extensive metro-led underground spaces. Shanghai has the most extensive and commercially driven underground developments, followed closely by Shenzhen and Tianjin. The key lessons learned are the importance of spatial quality of undergrounds in attracting and retaining pedestrians, as well as the need to correctly position underground developments in congruence to the neighborhood needs above. If correctly positioned, underground retail corridors can be thriving and lively destinations.
Keywords: Underground space planning; pedestrian connection; commercial positioning; spatial design

Amin Y. Noaman, Fekry Fouad Ahmed,
ERP Systems Functionalities in Higher Education,
Procedia Computer Science,
Volume 65,
2015,
Pages 385-395,
ISSN 1877-0509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2015.09.100.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050915029300)
Abstract: The educational ERP of business activities in higher education go through a different modules. ERP in higher education should respond the real requirements of education system. Enhancements or mere adaptations of legacy solutions, which stemmed from the experience in business practice, are not always successful. The current paper shows the contents of the ERP that serve the education system successfully also shows the needs and future expectations of higher education institutions and the current business oriented ERP system.
Keywords: ERP in higher education; campus management; change management; Education Resource Planning

Keith Barker,
The gap between real and perceived security risks,
Computer Fraud & Security,
Volume 2014, Issue 4,
2014,
Pages 5-8,
ISSN 1361-3723,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-3723(14)70478-6.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361372314704786)
Abstract: The disconnect between perceived and actual risk is astounding. According to the 11th Annual Global Information Security Survey, 84% of CEOs and 82% of CIOs contend their cyber-security programmes are effective.1 Yet the number of security incidents detected is rising significantly year-over-year, and the number of organisations reporting losses of more than $10 million per incident is up 75% from just two years ago. The disconnect between perceived and actual risk is astounding. Most CEOs and CIOs contend their cyber-security programmes are effective, yet the number of security incidents is rising significantly. The solution starts at the top, with clear policies that are communicated right down through the organisation. But those policies also have to take account of user behaviours and changing technology, such as the Bring Your Own Device phenomenon, explains Keith Barker.

Masoud Kavosh, Kumar Patchigolla, John E. Oakey, Edward J. Anthony, Scott Champagne, Robin Hughes,
Pressurised calcination–atmospheric carbonation of limestone for cyclic CO2 capture from flue gases,
Chemical Engineering Research and Design,
Volume 102,
2015,
Pages 116-123,
ISSN 0263-8762,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cherd.2015.06.024.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0263876215002300)
Abstract: A study was carried out to investigate the CO2 capture performance of limestone under atmospheric carbonations following pressurised calcination. A series of tests was carried out to study the role of pressurised calcination using a fluidised bed reactor. In this investigation, calcination of limestone particles was carried out at three levels of pressure: 0.1MPa, 0.5MPa, and 1.0MPa. After calcination, the capture performance of the calcined sorbent was tested at atmospheric pressure. As expected, the results indicate that the carbonation conversion of calcined sorbent decreases as the pressure is increased during calcination. Pressurised calcination requires higher temperatures and causes an increase in sorbent sintering, albeit that it would have the advantage of reducing equipment size as well as the compression energy necessary for CO2transport and storage, and an analysis has been provided to give an assessment of the potential benefits associated with such an option using process software.
Keywords: Pressurised calcination; Fluidised bed process; Ca looping cycles; Compression energy

Dan Reddy,
Criticality analysis and the supply chain: Leveraging representational assurance,
Technovation,
Volume 34, Issue 7,
2014,
Pages 362-379,
ISSN 0166-4972,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.technovation.2014.01.009.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166497214000108)
Abstract: System builders who plan to acquire information and communication technology (ICT) products must consider two key risk factors (among many) while planning for the acquisition and design of their systems. They must understand the inter-relationships of all assembled products in any new planned system in terms of its resilience under attack. These system owners will also increasingly assess the risks they may inherit from a global interconnected supply chain. To address these concerns, the recommendation in this paper is for providers of Commercial-Off-the-Shelf (COTS) technology products to perform a criticality analysis on their own products to gauge resilience, rather than later be confronted by an acquirer attempting to solely reverse engineer the system as part of supply chain due-diligence. This paper illustrates the roles that technology providers and system owners each play in following the outlined approach that highlights key risk factors of the tiered suppliers for product elements deemed most critical. ICT COTS providers who do not want to divulge sensitive information about their suppliers can use a “representational assurance” approach to convey meaningful information to potential acquirers without undue disclosure. Analytical graphics such as “Treemaps” can help all parties illustrate where to best focus their attention regarding critical operational risk and supply chain risk. The same data that providers track internally to manage product assurance can be leveraged to support meaningful representational assurance to acquirers. This approach improves the current state where data disclosure by technology providers is seen by acquirers, despite being unrealistic, as the best means to gain confidence in the technology supply chain.
Keywords: SCRM; Supply Chain; Criticality Analysis; O-TTPS; Treemap; Representational assurance; Counterfeit; Taint

Luis Jesús Ramón Stroppi, Omar Chiotti, Pablo David Villarreal,
Defining the resource perspective in the development of processes-aware information systems,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 59,
2015,
Pages 86-108,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2014.10.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584914002171)
Abstract: Context
The resource perspective has impact on the performance of business processes. However, current Workflow Management Systems (WfMSs) provide disparate support to its implementation and business process modeling languages provide limited capabilities for its definition. Thus, it is difficult to specify requirements regarding this perspective and to select an appropriate WfMS to support them in order to obtain a technological solution aligned with the organizational needs.
Objective
To provide support to the definition, implementation, verification and validation of resource perspective requirements in the development of Process-Aware Information Systems (PAISs) based on WfMSs.
Method
The following activities were carried out: (i) identification of resource perspective aspects in executable workflow specifications, (ii) analysis of the elements provided by the BPMN modeling language to represent these aspects, (iii) development of a framework based on BPMN for defining and implementing these aspects by using the extension mechanism provided by this language, (iv) development of a model-driven development method that leverages the framework to develop PAISs, and (v) validation of the proposed framework and method through the development of a tool supporting them, a case study, and the evaluation against the Workflow Resource Patterns.
Results
A framework, a method and a tool that support the definition of the resource perspective in the development of PAISs.
Conclusion
By using the proposed framework and method, practitioners are able to: define the resource perspective requirements in conceptual process models, select a WfMS as implementation platform, and define the implementation of these requirements maintaining the consistency between the conceptual process models and the workflow specifications.
Keywords: Process-aware information system; Resource perspective; Workflow; BPMN; Business process

Angel R. Otero,
An information security control assessment methodology for organizations' financial information,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 18,
2015,
Pages 26-45,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2015.06.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089515000238)
Abstract: In an era where dependence of information systems is significantly high, the threat of incidents related to information security that could jeopardize financial information held by organizations is serious. Alarming facts within the literature point to inadequacies in information security practices, particularly the evaluation of information security controls in organizations. Research efforts have resulted in various methodologies developed to deal with the information security controls assessment problem. A closer look at these traditional methodologies highlights various weaknesses that prevent an effective information security controls assessment in organizations. This paper develops a methodology that addresses such weaknesses when evaluating information security controls in organizations' financial systems. The methodology uses the fuzzy set theory which allows for a more accurate assessment of imprecise criteria than traditional methodologies. It is argued that using the fuzzy set theory to evaluate information security controls in organizations addresses existing weaknesses identified in the literature and leads to a more precise assessment. This, in turn, results in a more effective selection of information security controls and enhanced information security in organizations. The main contribution of this research is the development of a fuzzy set theory-based assessment methodology that provides for a thorough evaluation of information security controls in organizations. Overall, the methodology presented herein proved to be a feasible technique for evaluating information security controls in organizations' financial systems.
Keywords: Assessment; Design science research; Evaluation; Fuzzy logic; Fuzzy set theory; Information security controls

M. Maziejuk, J. Puton, M. Szyposzyńska, Z. Witkiewicz,
Fragmentation of molecular ions in differential mobility spectrometry as a method for identification of chemical warfare agents,
Talanta,
Volume 144,
2015,
Pages 1201-1206,
ISSN 0039-9140,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.talanta.2015.07.039.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0039914015301661)
Abstract: The subject of the work is the use of differential mobility spectrometry (DMS) for the detection of chemical warfare agents (CWA). Studies were performed for mustard gas, i.e., bis(2-chloroethyl)sulfide (HD), sarin, i.e., O-isopropyl methylphosphonofluoridate (GB) and methyl salicylate (MS) used as test compounds. Measurements were conducted with two ceramic DMS analyzers of different constructions allowing the generation of an electric field with an intensity of more than 120Td. Detector signals were measured for positive and negative modes of operation in a temperature range from 0 to 80°C. Fragmentations of ions containing analyte molecules were observed for all tested compounds. The effective temperatures of fragmentation estimated on the basis of dispersion plots were equal from about 148°C for GB to 178°C for MS. It was found that values of separation voltage (SV) and compensation voltage (CV) at which the fragmentation of sample ions is observed may be the parameters improving the certainty of detection for different analytes. The DMS analyzers enabling the observation of ion fragmentation can be successfully used for effective CWA detection.
Keywords: Differential mobility spectrometry; Chemical warfare agents; Effective temperature of ions; Fragmentation of ions

Henri C. Dekker,
On the boundaries between intrafirm and interfirm management accounting research,
Management Accounting Research,
Volume 31,
2016,
Pages 86-99,
ISSN 1044-5005,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mar.2016.01.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1044500516000111)
Abstract: Over the past two decades, accounting researchers have shown significant interest in interfirm relationships; in particular in the implications for management accounting and control practices to manage these relationships. Analysis of the growing literature on interfirm management accounting suggests this is developing largely independently from the literature on accounting and control in intrafirm settings, with only limited recognition of potential interrelations. A key reason for this seems to relate to the different types of research questions and related levels of analysis that studies in these areas focus on. Particularly, while intrafirm studies focus primarily on questions related to units, people, practices and processes within organizations, interfirm studies focus predominantly on questions related to the management of collaboration with partner firms and of partner behavior. This paper reviews how intrafirm and interfirm management accounting research to date connect, and how they could connect better. The review identifies three areas of connection that are addressed to only a limited extent by prior research: (1) management accounting within interfirm relationships aimed at aligning the interests and actions of boundary spanners, (2) interrelations between intrafirm and interfirm management accounting, and (3) the use of intrafirm management control frameworks to analyze interfirm control. For each of these areas, the paper reviews insights obtained from prior studies and offers directions for future research.
Keywords: Interfirm relationships; Intrafirm management accounting; Management control; Boundary spanners

Patrick Gaubatz, Ioanna Lytra, Uwe Zdun,
Automatic enforcement of constraints in real-time collaborative architectural decision making,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 103,
2015,
Pages 128-149,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2015.01.056.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121215000345)
Abstract: Making and documenting architectural design decisions becomes increasingly important in the process of software architecting. However, the remoteness of different decision stakeholders, ranging from local distribution in an office environment to globally distributed teams, as well as the different domain knowledge, expertise and responsibilities of the stakeholders hinder effective and efficient collaboration. Existing tools and methods for collaborative architectural decision making focus mainly on sharing and reusing of knowledge, making trade-offs, and achieving consensus, but do not consider the various stakeholders’ decision making constraints due to their roles in the development process. To address this problem, we propose a meta-model for a set of decision making constraints, with precisely defined semantics, as well as a collaborative architectural decision making approach based on this meta-model. We also present tool support, called CoCoADvISE, which automatically enforces the constraints at runtime. The evaluation of this tool in a controlled experiment with 48 participants shows that our approach, besides preventing constraint violations, significantly increases both the time and effort related efficiency, as well as the effectiveness of users in collaborative decision making.
Keywords: Decision making constraint; Reusable architectural decision model; Controlled experiment

Khair Eddin Sabri, Hazem Hiary,
Algebraic Model for Handling Access Control Policies,
Procedia Computer Science,
Volume 83,
2016,
Pages 653-657,
ISSN 1877-0509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2016.04.146.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050916301764)
Abstract: Confidentiality of information is an important aspect that developers should take into consideration when building systems. One way to achieve confidentiality is to define access control policies that give authorization rules for allowing users to access resources. In large organizations, managing policies becomes a complex task. Usually, based on the defined policies, developers would need to manipulate policies such as composing them and enforcing predefined security constraints. In this paper, we present an algebraic model for specifying access control policies. It consists of a few number of operators which gives simplicity in specifying policies. The proposed model enables us to specify policies and enforce predefined security constraints. Furthermore, the model allows us to combine policies and analyze their effect on predefined constraints. Furthermore, it enables comparing the sensitivity of objects (e.g. files) and authority of subjects (e.g. users).
Keywords: Information Security; Access Control Policies; Formal Specification; Algebraic Analysis

Elham Hady Nia, Jamaliah Said,
Assessing Fraud Risk Factors of Assets Misappropriation: Evidences from Iranian Banks,
Procedia Economics and Finance,
Volume 31,
2015,
Pages 919-924,
ISSN 2212-5671,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S2212-5671(15)01194-6.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212567115011946)
Abstract: The case of asset misappropriation (AM) in the Iranian Banking Industry has been at alarming rate since the last decade. It has caused many banks to collapse, and many investors and depositors funds were trapped. In fact, it has prevented many banks from achieving their goals and many businesses went into liquidation. Since the last few decades, asset misappropriation is prevalent especially in financial service industry. In addition, employee fraud is the most prevalent type of fraud experienced by organizations. Therefore, the main purpose of this study is to provide a more in depth view on the reasons of assets perpetrations conducted by bank employees in Iran. The exploratory study adopts quantitative methods to reach a better grasp of the reasons of why bank staffs commit fraud at work. The sample size of the current research is comprised of 200 bank managers and employees from top three banks in the banking industry of Iran, namely Bank Melli Iran, Bank Saderat Iran and Bank Tejarat Iran. All the respondents were chosen based on the stratified selection method among those who have two in common characteristics, firstly, being informed about details of fraud in the banking industry of Iran, and secondly being decision maker. The result of the paper enhanced the existing literature further in understanding the concept of fraud and assets misappropriation in Iran. Findings are useful for policy makers, managers at banking system and practitioners to improve safety of banking mechanisms in Iran. Managerial implication and suggestions for future research are also included.
Keywords: Asset Misappropriation; Banking Industry

Massimo Sargiacomo, Luca Ianni, Jeff Everett,
Accounting for suffering: Calculative practices in the field of disaster relief,
Critical Perspectives on Accounting,
Volume 25, Issue 7,
2014,
Pages 652-669,
ISSN 1045-2354,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpa.2014.03.011.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1045235414000458)
Abstract: This study examines the role of accounting and other calculative practices in the context of a natural disaster and subsequent emergency-relief effort. Relying on document analysis and interviews with key participants, the study chronologically examines when, how, and with what effects accounting and other associated practices were mobilized in the follow-up to an earthquake that occurred in the Abruzzo region of central Italy in 2009. The study considers these practices through the three lenses of private-interest maximization, inequality, and suffering. The study shows how accounting actors simultaneously serve multiple ethical masters, and how one of these can come to dominate accounting's ‘moral economy’. In so doing, the study helps bridge the gap between ethics and critical accounting research.
Keywords: Critique; Social; Éthique; Crítica; Social; Ética; Critical; Social; Ethics; Bourdieu; Disaster

C.R. Reinemeyer, J.C. Prado, U.V. Andersen, M.K. Nielsen, B. Schricker, T. Kennedy,
Effects of daily pyrantel tartrate on strongylid population dynamics and performance parameters of young horses repeatedly infected with cyathostomins and Strongylus vulgaris,
Veterinary Parasitology,
Volume 204, Issues 3–4,
2014,
Pages 229-237,
ISSN 0304-4017,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.vetpar.2014.05.034.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0304401714003136)
Abstract: Strongylid infections are ubiquitous in grazing horse populations. Infections with cyathostomin (small strongyle) and strongylin (large strongyle) nematodes have long been associated with clinical disease in horses, but little is known about their subclinical impact. A masked, randomized, controlled study was conducted to evaluate the effects of daily administration of pyrantel tartrate on body condition scores, weight gain, fecal egg counts, and total worm counts of young horses repeatedly inoculated with strongylid larvae. Twenty eight immature horses were treated with larvicidal anthelmintic regimens and randomly allocated to two groups. Group 1 horses were given a pelleted placebo product once daily, and those in Group 2 received pyrantel tartrate once daily at ∼2.64mg/kg body weight. On five days during each week, ∼5000 infective cyathostomin larvae were administered to each horse. In addition, horses received ∼25 infective Strongylus vulgaris larvae once weekly. Horses were maintained on pasture for 154 days and had ad libitum access to grass hay throughout. At approximate, 14-day intervals, body weights were measured, body condition scores were assigned, fecal samples were collected for egg counts, and blood samples were collected for measurement of S. vulgaris antibodies and various physiologic parameters. After 22 weeks at pasture and 14–17 days in confinement, horses were euthanatized and necropsied. Nematodes were recovered and counted from aliquots of organ contents, representative samples of large intestinal mucosa, and the root of the cranial mesenteric artery. Daily treatment with pyrantel tartrate at the recommended dosage significantly reduced numbers of adult cyathostomins in the gut lumen and early third-stage larvae in the cecal mucosa, increased the proportions of fourth-stage larvae in the gut contents, and was accompanied by significant improvements in body condition scores. Fecal egg counts of horses receiving daily pyrantel tartrate were significantly reduced, with percentages of efficacy ranging from 84.4% to 98.9%, but egg counts of both groups increased significantly over the course of the study. Treatment also significantly reduced the numbers of S. vulgaris larvae in the cranial mesenteric artery by 99.2%. Serum antibodies to S. vulgaris apparently persisted from pre-enrollment infections, but ELISA values gradually declined over the course of the study. This study has provided useful insights into the effects of daily pyrantel tartrate on the dynamics of cyathostomin infection, and into some subclinical effects of strongylid parasitism in horses.
Keywords: Horse; Anthelmintic; Pyrantel tartrate; Cyathostomins; Strongylus vulgaris; Performance

Rozaiha Ab Majid, Nafsiah Mohamed, Rosmawati Haron, Nor Bahiyah Omar, Betsy Jomitin,
Misappropriation of Assets in Local Authorities: A Challenge to Good Governance,
Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences,
Volume 164,
2014,
Pages 345-350,
ISSN 1877-0428,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sbspro.2014.11.086.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877042814059060)
Abstract: Misappropriation of assets is indeed becoming a major concern in the public sector. In this paper, we will attempt to frame the results survey on assets misappropriation that might occur in two city councils. It is found that the incidence of misappropriation of assets occurs when employees used the official vehicles, computers, and facilities for personal interest. Even though the impact might not significant, yet, if it is left untreated, the symptom will become an incurable disease. As a result, the trivial instalments will create tremendous impact on the financial waste due to the unnecessary expenditure incurred.
Keywords: City councils; misappropriation of assets; fraud.

Asmita Manna, Anirban Sengupta, Chandan Mazumdar,
A Survey of Trust Models for Enterprise Information Systems,
Procedia Computer Science,
Volume 85,
2016,
Pages 527-534,
ISSN 1877-0509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2016.05.212.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050916305609)
Abstract: Most of today's enterprises are open in a competitive market worldwide and dependent on distributed information infrastructure across various geospatial location and various cyber spatial location as well with a purpose of offering ready and effective services to customers. But this decentralization comes at the cost of security. The distributed computing framework is vulnerable to attacks from malicious agents, thereby increasing the chances of risks and security breaches. Trust and Reputation management system is a tool to combat security threats. A trust management system helps its user to decide how trustworthy the other party is before making a transaction. This work aims to identify the required characteristics of trust needed for an enterprise network and presents a survey of a few well known trust models with an aim to identify trust characteristics in each model.
Keywords: Trust Model; Enterprise Information System

Zulkefli Mohd Yusop, Jemal Abawajy,
Analysis of Insiders Attack Mitigation Strategies,
Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences,
Volume 129,
2014,
Pages 581-591,
ISSN 1877-0428,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sbspro.2014.03.716.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877042814028985)
Abstract: Insider attacks become a severe threat to organizations. The emergence of Cloud computing that provides computing as a utility has attracted organizations to store their sensitive data remotely by subscribing the virtual storage from Cloud service provider. While data outsourcing relieves the data owners from burden of local data storage maintenance and security, the steps of embracing Cloud storage service has led to security problems. With the services provided by Cloud service provider that can be extended from Cloud user to Private Cloud and expanded to Public Cloud, there are many possibilities that malicious insider attacks may occur to exploit the weaknesses of Cloud systems. Until now there are no perfect mitigation strategies that can be relied on to solve the threats. We describe the Cloud computing and security issues, discuss about malicious insiders attack in Cloud computing and analyses the existing mitigation strategies and techniques to reduce malicious insiders threats in Cloud computing.
Keywords: Cloud Computing; Insider Attacks; Malicious Insider Collusions; Mitigation Strategies; Cloud Computing Security; Data Security.

Zuraidah Mohd-Sanusi, Nurliyana Haji Khalid, Amilin Mahir,
An Evaluation of Clients’ Fraud Reasoning Motives in Assessing Fraud Risks: From the Perspective of External and Internal Auditors,
Procedia Economics and Finance,
Volume 31,
2015,
Pages 2-12,
ISSN 2212-5671,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S2212-5671(15)01126-0.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212567115011260)
Abstract: The auditor's accuracy in conducting fraud risk assessment continues to be the most critical task. The reason is the effectiveness and efficiency of an audit depends on auditor's ability to accurately assess the existing audit risks (Jones, 2004). Applying to that, Malaysian Approved Standards on Auditing AI 240 on “Fraud and Error”, provides recommendation to auditors in assessing the client's likelihood of fraud risks based on the three elements of fraud triangle concept; opportunity, pressure and rationalization. Ideally, this audit standard highlighted the importance of auditors’ to evaluate these elements as it will assist them to understand their clients’ fraud reasoning motives and thus, properly assess the potential fraud risks that might be occurred. Based on the risk assessment, the auditors are required to plan the audit procedures in order to detect any material misstatement that may lead to fraud or error. In this study, as established in the ISA240, the fraud triangle concept has been used to examine the direct and interaction effect of the following fraud risk factors: (1) internal control system (opportunity); (2) pressure and; (3) type of auditors (internal and external auditors) on fraud risk assessment. An experimental research approach is adopted by sending a set of case scenarios to 129 auditors, comprises of both internal and external auditors. The respondents were required to complete two different case scenarios, where the level of internal controls and pressures were being manipulated; high and low. The results showed that there are significant relationships between each risk factors and fraud risk assessment. Furthermore, the results of the interaction effects (combination of two variables) also show significant effect on fraud risk assessment. The findings of this study may provide insights into the auditors’ judgment in assessing fraud risk. It is also could be beneficial to the auditors to increase their awareness of the importance to understand their client's fraud motives during fraud risk assessment task and thus, improve the audit quality.
Keywords: fraud risk assessment; fraud reasoning motives; internal control; pressure; fraud triangle; auditors

Anajar Abdelhak, Snadrou Khalid, Talbi Mohammed, Radid Mohamed, Tragha Abderrahim,
Which Territorial Organization To Improve The Academic Education Performance?,
Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences,
Volume 191,
2015,
Pages 2861-2866,
ISSN 1877-0428,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sbspro.2015.04.296.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877042815025562)
Abstract: The expectations of the Moroccan citizen towards the evolution of the environment have made that the Educational System (ES) requires good governance through the establishment of tools; processes and mechanisms based on management by projects, hence the need to put in place an organizational scheme that would meet the needs of the ES. For this purpose, a project for updating the functional organization of the Department of School Education has been proposed. This research through a field investigation with various officials resulted in levers of accompaniment that will evaluate the proposed organizational scheme and encourage its implementation.
Keywords: Education; Project Management; Organization

Amanda L. Wilford,
Internal control reporting and accounting standards: A cross-country comparison,
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy,
Volume 35, Issue 3,
2016,
Pages 276-302,
ISSN 0278-4254,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaccpubpol.2015.12.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0278425415001003)
Abstract: In this study, I examine whether there is a difference between internal control reporting (measured through the presence/absence material weaknesses) among foreign and U.S. firms. I also examine the relation between internal control reporting and the accounting standards used by firms (i.e., U.S. and foreign) in their submitted SEC financial statements. Overall, my results indicate that foreign firms are more likely to report material weaknesses than U.S. firms. Furthermore, foreign firms that submit financial statements that are prepared using U.S. GAAP or prepared using their domestic standards and then reconciled to U.S. GAAP are more likely to report material weaknesses. Since country specific political factors could influence the reporting of material weaknesses I also examine whether rule of law impacts the reporting of material weaknesses. My results indicate that foreign firms that are classified as strong rule of law countries are less likely to report material weaknesses and foreign firms that are classified as weak rule of law countries are more likely to report material weaknesses. Additionally, foreign firms that prepare the SEC submitted financial statements using IFRS are less like to report material weaknesses in strong rule of law countries and there is no significant relation between IFRS firms and material weakness reporting in weak rule of law countries.

Rafael Accorsi, Andreas Lehmann, Niels Lohmann,
Information leak detection in business process models: Theory, application, and tool support,
Information Systems,
Volume 47,
2015,
Pages 244-257,
ISSN 0306-4379,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2013.12.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306437913001713)
Abstract: Despite the correct deployment of access control mechanisms, information leaks can persist and threaten the reliability of business process execution. This paper presents an automated and effective approach for the verification of information flow control for business process models. Building on the concept of place-based non-interference and declassification, the core contribution of this paper is the application of Petri net reachability to detect places in which information leaks occur. Such a feature allows for the use of state-of-the-art tool support to model-check business process models and detect leaks. We show that the approach is sound and complete, and present the Anica tool to identify leaks. An extensive evaluation comprising over 550 industrial process models is carried out and shows that information flow analysis of process models can be done in milliseconds. This motivates a tight integration of business process modeling and non-interference checking.
Keywords: Business process security; Software and process engineering; Automated analysis

Cristina Alcaraz, Javier Lopez, Stephen Wolthusen,
Policy enforcement system for secure interoperable control in distributed Smart Grid systems,
Journal of Network and Computer Applications,
Volume 59,
2016,
Pages 301-314,
ISSN 1084-8045,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2015.05.023.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1084804515001629)
Abstract: Interoperability of distributed systems in charge of monitoring and maintaining the different critical domains belonging to Smart Grid scenarios comprise the central topic of this paper. Transparency in control transactions under a secure and reliable architecture is the aim of the policy enforcement system proposed here. The approach is based on the degree of observation of a context and on the role-based access control model defined by the IEC-62351-8 standard. Only authenticated and authorised entities are able to take control of those distributed elements (e.g., IEC-61850 objects) located at distant geographical locations and close to the critical infrastructures (e.g., substations). To ensure the effectiveness of the approach, it is built on graphical–theoretical formulations corresponding to graph theory, where it is possible to illustrate power control networks through power-law distributions whose monitoring relies on structural controllability theory. The interconnection of these distributions is subject to a network architecture based on the concept of the supernode where the interoperability depends on a simple rule-based expert system. This expert system focuses not only on accepting or denying access, but also on providing the means to attend to extreme situations, avoiding, as much as possible, the overloading of the communication. Through one practical study we also show the functionalities of the approach and the benefits that the authorisation itself can bring to the interoperability.
Keywords: Smart Grid; Distributed control systems; Controllability; Interoperability; Policy enforcement; Access control

C.R. Reinemeyer, J.C. Prado, M.K. Nielsen,
Comparison of the larvicidal efficacies of moxidectin or a five-day regimen of fenbendazole in horses harboring cyathostomin populations resistant to the adulticidal dosage of fenbendazole,
Veterinary Parasitology,
Volume 214, Issues 1–2,
2015,
Pages 100-107,
ISSN 0304-4017,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.vetpar.2015.10.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0304401715300431)
Abstract: Despite widespread acknowledgement of cyathostomin resistance to adult icidal dosages of benzimidazole (BZD) anthelmintics, many strongyle control programs continue to feature regularly scheduled larvicidal treatment with fenbendazole (FBZ). However, no studies have been conducted to evaluate the efficacy of larvicidal regimens against encysted cyathostomins in a BZD-resistant (BZD-R) population. A masked, randomized, controlled clinical study was conducted with 18 juvenile horses harboring populations of cyathostomins that were considered BZD-R on the basis of fecal egg count reduction (FECR). Horses were blocked by prior history, ranked by egg counts, and allocated randomly to one of three treatment groups: 1—control, 2—FBZ >10mg/kg once daily for five consecutive days, or 3—moxidectin (MOX) >0.4mg/kg once. Fecal samples were collected prior to treatment and seven and 14 days after the final dose of anthelmintic. On Days 18–20, complete replicates of horses were euthanatized and necropsied, and 1% aliquots of large intestinal contents were recovered for determination of complete worm counts. The cecum and ventral colon were weighed, and measured proportions of the respective organ walls were processed for quantitation and characterization of encysted cyathostomin populations. The five-day regimen of FBZ achieved 44.6% fecal egg count reduction, had 56.4% activity against luminal adults and larvae, and was 38.6% and 71.2% effective against encysted early third stage (EL3) and late third stage/ fourth stage (LL3/L4) cyathostomin larvae, respectively. In contrast, MOX provided 99.9% FECR, removed 99.8% of luminal stages, and exhibited 63.6% and 85.2% efficacy against EL3 and LL3/L4 mucosal cyathostomins, respectively. Although BZD-R was the most feasible explanation for the lower larvicidal efficacies of FBZ, mean larval counts of moxidectin-treated horses were not significantly different from controls or those treated with FBZ. The lack of significant differences between larvicidal treatments was partially attributed to a small sample size and high variability among worm burdens. Historical differences in the time intervals between treatment and necropsy were identified as a confounding factor for accurate estimation of larvicidal efficacy. Determining appropriate post-treatment intervals for measuring larvicidal efficacy remains a critical regulatory and scientific challenge for this therapeutic area.
Keywords: Horse; Cyathostomin; Anthelmintic resistance; Larvicidal efficacy; Fenbendazole; Moxidectin

David Förster, Frank Kargl, Hans Löhr,
PUCA: A pseudonym scheme with strong privacy guarantees for vehicular ad-hoc networks,
Ad Hoc Networks,
Volume 37, Part 1,
2016,
Pages 122-132,
ISSN 1570-8705,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.adhoc.2015.09.011.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1570870515002280)
Abstract: Pseudonym certificates are the state-of-the-art approach for secure and privacy-friendly message authentication in vehicular ad-hoc networks. However, most of the proposed pseudonym schemes focus on privacy among participants. Privacy towards backend providers is usually (if at all) only protected by separation of responsibilities. The protection can be overridden, when the entities collaborate, e.g. when revocation of long-term credentials is required. This approach puts the users’ privacy at risk, if the backend systems are not fully trusted. We propose PUCA – a scheme that provides full anonymity for honest users, even against colluding backend providers. The scheme uses anonymous credentials for authentication with the backend, while leaving the communication among vehicles and with road side units unchanged and in compliance with existing standards. For removal of misbehaving vehicles from the system, we leverage a privacy-friendly revocation mechanism, that does not require resolution of pseudonyms. With our scheme, we demonstrate that strong and verifiable privacy protection in vehicular networks can be achieved, while fulfilling common security requirements, such as sybil-resistance and revocation.
Keywords: Intelligent transportation systems; Vehicular ad-hoc networks; Location privacy; Pseudonym schemes; Security; Anonymous credentials

Sorin Briciu, Andreea Cristina Dănescu, Tatiana Dănescu, Mihaela Prozan,
A Comparative Study of Well-established Internal Control Models,
Procedia Economics and Finance,
Volume 15,
2014,
Pages 1015-1020,
ISSN 2212-5671,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S2212-5671(14)00662-5.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212567114006625)
Abstract: Establishing into practice many internal control models represents a resultant of the diversity of juridical regulations and professional practices from national and international jurisdictions, of public consequences of famous bankruptcies and the public managers’ answers regarding the credibility and transparency of published financial information. Business globalization, the necessity of using a common accounting language in order to measure the economic effects, to monitor and implement some adequate procedures for the financial management of intercessions undertaken by organization executives have opened new research perspectives regarding the internal control of activities useful for accomplishing the established objectives. Under this impulse, the comparative study of internal control models represents a necessary intercession for the foundation of specific practices from every company.
Keywords: internal control; financial reporting; accounting information; accounting practices; transparency

Flora Amato, Giuseppe De Pietro, Massimo Esposito, Nicola Mazzocca,
An integrated framework for securing semi-structured health records,
Knowledge-Based Systems,
Volume 79,
2015,
Pages 99-117,
ISSN 0950-7051,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2015.02.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950705115000362)
Abstract: In the last years, the adoption of Electronic Health Records (EHRs) have been widely promoted, with the final aim of improving care quality and patient safety. Yet, sharing patient data in a large distributed and heterogeneous context, such as the healthcare domain, has inherently introduced security and privacy risks, due to the great sensitivity and confidentiality of the patient data and the need of accessing such data by a large number of health care workers with various roles for the patient care. Even though various techniques have been developed to effectively implement fine-grained access control, which allows flexibility in specifying differential access rights of individual users, some unsolved problems can be pointed out with respect to the specification of complex policies over EHRs: (i) the difficulty of forcing narrative text to assume a semi-structured coded form into EHRs in order to build access control policies also working at a section-level; (ii) an overly high-level of theoretical ability required to practically use access control models and policy languages as a whole, due to a scarce integration among them; and (iii) the lack of tools for easily editing and upgrading access control policies over EHRs. In order to face all these open issues, this paper proposes a hybrid framework aimed at enabling and supporting the definition of fine-grained access control policies working on semi-structured EHRs. The key issues of the framework are: (i) a semantic-based method that hybridizes linguistic and statistical techniques in order to give a semi-structured form to a narrative text to be inserted into EHRs, by identifying its specific sections; (ii) a formal role-based authorization model, encoded as a couple of ontologies, to regulate the access to these semi-structured EHRs with respect to their sections; and (iii) a procedural policy language and a set of patterns to simply encode and update access control restrictions in the form of “if–then rules” built on the top of the ontological model formalized. A prototype implementation of this framework is realized in the form of a system offering simple and intuitive interfaces to the security administrators. Finally, an experimental evaluation over real documents contained into EHRs, i.e. discharge summaries, is described, showing the feasibility of the proposed framework and suggesting that its application could simply and proficiently secure the access to healthcare information contained into semi-structured EHRs and, thus, face security and privacy risks in real healthcare scenarios.
Keywords: Electronic health record; Role-based access control; Policy language; Information structuring; Ontology

Ewa Losiewicz-Dniestrzanska,
Monitoring of Compliance Risk in the Bank,
Procedia Economics and Finance,
Volume 26,
2015,
Pages 800-805,
ISSN 2212-5671,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S2212-5671(15)00846-1.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212567115008461)
Abstract: One effect of passing through the world financial crisis is to pay closer attention to compliance with the regulations of business by banks and other financial institutions. In recent times there has also been an increase in the importance of compliance units involved in the management of compliance risk in the bank. The author in the paper highlights the need to risk monitoring of non-compliance with the regulations and presents some monitoring tools of this kind of risk in the bank. Examples of tools and techniques presented in the paper relate to banks operating in Poland. These are mainly methods based on using indicators, supported by information technology tools for business process management. The scope of compliance evolved last years to a much broader area. The author of the paper draws attention to the growing popularity of the approach integrating operational and compliance risk
Keywords: compliance in a bank; compliance risk monitoring; monitoring tools; indicators; risk maps


A Changing Environment: 2016 NCSBN Environmental Scan,
Journal of Nursing Regulation,
Volume 6, Issue 4,
2016,
Pages 4-37,
ISSN 2155-8256,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S2155-8256(16)31007-9.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2155825616310079)
Abstract: Annually, the National Council of State Boards of Nursing (NCSBN) publishes an environmental scan. This report captures the current environment in which regulators work in order to help BONs anticipate future needs and plan strategically, and to serve as a resource for nurse leaders in practice and education. Based on information derived from numerous resources, this scan identifies critical information needed for 2016 and beyond.

Patrick Delfmann, Matthias Steinhorst, Hanns-Alexander Dietrich, Jörg Becker,
The generic model query language GMQL – Conceptual specification, implementation, and runtime evaluation,
Information Systems,
Volume 47,
2015,
Pages 129-177,
ISSN 0306-4379,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2014.06.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306437914000957)
Abstract: The generic model query language GMQL is designed to query collections of conceptual models created in arbitrary graph-based modelling languages. Querying conceptual models means searching for particular model subgraphs that comply with a predefined pattern query. Such a query specifies the structural and semantic properties of the model fragment to be returned. In this paper, we derive requirements for a generic model query language from the literature and formally specify the language’s syntax and semantics. We conduct an analysis of GMQL׳s theoretical and practical runtime performance concluding that it returns query results within satisfactory time. Given its generic nature, GMQL contributes to a broad range of different model analysis scenarios ranging from business process compliance management to model translation and business process weakness detection. As GMQL returns results with acceptable runtime performance, it can be used to query large collections of hundreds or thousands of conceptual models containing not only process models, but also data models or organizational charts. In this paper, we furthermore evaluate GMQL against the backdrop of existing query approaches thereby carving out its advantages and limitations as well as pointing toward future research.
Keywords: Business Process Management; Conceptual model repository; Conceptual model analysis; Generic model query language; Model querying

Tim Ring,
The enemy within,
Computer Fraud & Security,
Volume 2015, Issue 12,
2015,
Pages 9-14,
ISSN 1361-3723,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-3723(15)30111-1.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361372315301111)
Abstract: Malicious insiders are the ultimate corporate nightmare: trusted individuals who decide to abuse their status and knowledge to compromise their company. Experts are warning that this insider cyber threat is significantly under-estimated and growing. So what can you do to stop employees who are determined to wreak their revenge while hiding their true intent until it is too late? Tim Ring speaks to threat experts to find the answer. Whether you think him a hero or villain, whistleblower Edward Snowden is the ultimate ‘malicious insider’. A man of impeccable credentials – he volunteered to serve in the Iraq War and was one of the CIA's top computer security experts – Snowden became so disillusioned with the electronic espionage by the US on its citizens that he used his privileged access at the NSA's office in Hawaii to steal over a million confidential documents. In May 2013, he fled to Hong Kong and began revealing the data cache that led to the unravelling of Western Government policy on secret mass surveillance.

Jianfeng Lu, James B.D. Joshi, Lei Jin, Yiding Liu,
Towards complexity analysis of User Authorization Query problem in RBAC,
Computers & Security,
Volume 48,
2015,
Pages 116-130,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2014.10.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404814001497)
Abstract: The User Authorization Query (UAQ) problem for RBAC is to determine whether there exists an optimum set of roles to be activated to provide a particular set of permissions requested by a user. It is a key issue related to efficiently handling users' access requests. Previous definitions of the UAQ problem have considered only the optimization objective for the number of permissions whereas the optimization objective for the number of roles, which is also equally important, has been largely ignored. Moreover, little attention has been given to the computational complexity of the UAQ problem that considers the optimization objectives for both the numbers of permissions and roles. In this paper, we propose a more comprehensive definition of the UAQ problem, which includes irreducibility, role-cardinality and permission-cardinality constraints, and consider both these optimization objectives together. In particular, we study the computational complexity of the UAQ problem by dividing it into three subcases: exact match, safe match and available match, and show that many instances in each subcase with additional constraints are intractable. We also propose an approach for solving the intractable cases of the UAQ problem; the proposed approach incorporates static pruning, preprocessing and the depth-first search based algorithm to significantly reduce the running time.
Keywords: Access control; RBAC; User Authorization Query; Computational complexity; Role-cardinality constraint; Permission-cardinality constraint

Lionel Khalil, Marie Khair, Joseph Abi Nassif,
Management of Student Records: Data Access Right Matrix and Data Sharing,
Procedia Computer Science,
Volume 65,
2015,
Pages 342-349,
ISSN 1877-0509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2015.09.094.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050915029245)
Abstract: This work proposes a procedure to implement a Data Access Policy to ensure the protection of privacy rights of students’ records within higher educational systems. First it reviews the general legal constraints applicable to higher Institutional Data management. Second it reviews the principles of a Coordinated Model. The procedure is based on an Access Right Matrix that assigns data access privileges to Data Users. The first purpose is to handle the common and regular access by rightful users to data needed in their daily routine job through operational interface. The main purpose of the procedure is to handle ad-hoc requests that come from outside the university or from some services which do not have formal access to the data. Data access right matrix is used to grant or reject ad hoc requests based on the following criteria: the degree of sensitivity of the data requested, the number of records requested the purpose of the usage, and finally the privileges and trustworthiness of the requester.
Keywords: Data Access Policy; Coordinated Model; Access Right Matrix

Derviş Kayımbaşıoğlu, Bora Oktekin, Hüseyin Hacı,
Integration of Gamification Technology in Education,
Procedia Computer Science,
Volume 102,
2016,
Pages 668-676,
ISSN 1877-0509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2016.09.460.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050916326400)
Abstract: Educational system plays crucial role on the development of nations, and the impact of early education empower knowledge acquisition. In this research, technology assisted second language learning (English) with peace context is used to reveal impact of information and communication technologies (ICT)in learning. The study is carried on 5 years old pre-schoolers, representing 4 classes with the average of 17 students in each, and the total of 60 sample students. Knowledge acquisition and tests are conducted with in class gamification training. Tests are first carried out by written assessment, then conducted with technology assisted gamification activity. Results revealed that teaching language with ICT together with gamification context significantly improved language acquisition and awareness of peace concept. Furthermore, observations show that technology assisted learning also minimizes distraction of children and boosts learning curve.
Keywords: gamification; technology in education; information and communication technologies (ICT) in learning; statistical performance investigation

Jan vom Brocke, Sarah Zelt, Theresa Schmiedel,
On the role of context in business process management,
International Journal of Information Management,
Volume 36, Issue 3,
2016,
Pages 486-495,
ISSN 0268-4012,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2015.10.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0268401215000985)
Abstract: Business Process Management (BPM) has proven successful to help organizations improve and innovate, and its application has grown in scope and context. One essential problem related to this development is that the BPM body of knowledge does not account for a broader variety of business contexts. On the contrary, most approaches, methods, or models in BPM suggest one way forward, and we recognize that BPM projects following a one-size-fits-all approach are prone to fail, since they do not sufficiently consider situational requirements. In this viewpoint article, we argue that BPM needs to be contextual in order for projects to be most efficient and effective. We observe a lack of research on how to identify and characterize business contexts relevant for tailoring the right BPM approach. Therefore, we examine contextual factors that influence BPM and propose a framework to identify the context in which BPM is applied. We define context in BPM as situational factors related to goal-, process-, organization-, and environment-dimensions. Our viewpoint article not only creates awareness for contextual BPM, it also intends to stimulate research on the role of context in BPM and to help practitioners better understand the specific business context in which BPM initiatives are applied.
Keywords: Business process management; Context; Contextual factor; Contingency theory

Ernesto Buelna, Raúl Monroy,
Real-Time Verification of Integrity Policies for Distributed Systems,
Journal of Applied Research and Technology,
Volume 11, Issue 6,
2013,
Pages 831-843,
ISSN 1665-6423,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1665-6423(13)71589-X.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S166564231371589X)
Abstract: We introduce a mechanism for the verification of real-time integrity policies about the operation of a distributed system. Our mechanism is based on Microsoft .NET technologies. Unlike rival competitors, it is not intrusive, as it hardly modifies the source code of any component of the system to be monitored. Our mechanism consists of four modules: the specification module, which comes with a security policy specification language, geared towards the capture of integrity policies; the monitoring module, which includes a code injector, whereby the mechanism observes how specific methods of the system, referred to by some policy, are invoked; the verifier module, which examines the operation of the distributed system in order to determine whether is policy compliant or not; and, the reporter module, which notifies the system is policy compliant, or sends an alert upon the occurrence of a contingency, indicating policy violation. We argue that our mechanism can be framed within the Clark and Wilson security model, and, thus, used to realise information integrity. We illustrate the workings and the power of our mechanism on a simple, but industrial-strength, case study.
Resumen
En este artículo, presentamos un mecanismo para verificar, en tiempo-real, políticas de integridad asociadas con un sistema distribuido. Nuestro mecanismo está desarrollado en, y es aplicable a, tecnologías MS .NET. A diferencia de sus competidores, no es intrusivo, pues no requiere modificaciones de consideración en el código fuente de ningún componente del sistema a inspeccionarse. Nuestro mecanismo consiste de cuatro módulos: el módulo de especificación, diseñado especialmente para expresar políticas de integridad; el módulo de inspección, el cual incluye un inyector de código, a través del cual nuestro mecanismo observa cómo se invocan los métodos del sistema referidos en alguna de las políticas; el módulo verificador, el cual examina la operación del sistema para determinar si éste cumple o no con las políticas; y, el módulo reportador, que notifica si el sistema está conforme a la norma, o envía alertas en el caso que ocurra una contingencia, indicando la violación a una política. Demostramos que nuestro mecanismo formalmente se enmarca dentro del modelo de seguridad de Clark y Wilson, y, por lo tanto, puede aplicarse en el establecimiento de integridad. Para mostrar el funcionamiento y las bondades de nuestro mecanismo, incluimos un caso de estudio simple, pero típico de una aplicación industrial o comercial.
Keywords: real-time policy verification; integrity policies; distributed systems; NET code injection; information security

Younis A. Younis, Kashif Kifayat, Madjid Merabti,
An access control model for cloud computing,
Journal of Information Security and Applications,
Volume 19, Issue 1,
2014,
Pages 45-60,
ISSN 2214-2126,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jisa.2014.04.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214212614000222)
Abstract: Cloud computing is considered one of the most dominant paradigms in the Information Technology (IT) industry these days. It offers new cost effective services on-demand such as Software as a Service (SaaS), Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) and Platform as a Service (PaaS). However, with all of these services promising facilities and benefits, there are still a number of challenges associated with utilizing cloud computing such as data security, abuse of cloud services, malicious insider and cyber-attacks. Among all security requirements of cloud computing, access control is one of the fundamental requirements in order to avoid unauthorized access to systems and protect organizations assets. Although, various access control models and policies have been developed such as Mandatory Access Control (MAC) and Role Based Access Control (RBAC) for different environments, these models may not fulfil cloud's access control requirements. This is because cloud computing has a diverse set of users with different sets of security requirements. It also has unique security challenges such as multi-tenant hosting and heterogeneity of security policies, rules and domains. This paper presents a detailed access control requirement analysis for cloud computing and identifies important gaps, which are not fulfilled by conventional access control models. This paper also proposes an access control model to meet the identified cloud access control requirements. We believe that the proposed model can not only ensure the secure sharing of resources among potential untrusted tenants, but also has the capacity to support different access permission to the same cloud user and gives him/her the ability to use multiple services securely.
Keywords: Cloud computing; Cloud computing security; Access control models; Task-Role Based Access Control; Cloud based access control model

Kanitsorn Terdpaopong, Jomdet Trimek,
Financial Scandal: The Case of King Mongkut's Institute of Technology Ladkrabang, Thailand,
Procedia Economics and Finance,
Volume 28,
2015,
Pages 39-45,
ISSN 2212-5671,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S2212-5671(15)01079-5.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212567115010795)
Abstract: Financial scandals are not new, but their growing sophistication, complexity and ability to inflict widespread damage to people and entire economies is of huge concern. Our study takes a case of embezzlement involving 1.58 billion baht (USD 52 million) at King Mongkut's Institute of Technology Ladkrabang (KMITL), Thailand, to examine what could have been done to avoid its occurrence. We interviewed the key commanders of Division 1, Crime Suppression Division (CSD), Central Investigation Bureau, The Royal Thai Police, Thailand. We interviewed five internal auditors to see what kind of good internal controls, internal auditing system and governance should have been in place. We furthered our study by interviewing top-ranked executive management of a private educational institution to see how its internal control systems compare with those of public institutions. The KMITL case shows the need to examine the adequacy of current standards for internal controls, auditing systems and governance.
Keywords: financial scandal; fraud; embezzlement; King Mongkut's Institute of Technology Ladkrabang; internal control; internal auditing; governance

Afifa Malina Amran, Rashidah Abdul Rahman, Sharifah Norzehan Syed Yusof, Intan Salwani Mohamed,
The Current Practice of Islamic Microfinance Institutions’ Accounting Information System via the Implementation of Mobile Banking,
Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences,
Volume 145,
2014,
Pages 81-87,
ISSN 1877-0428,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sbspro.2014.06.013.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877042814038713)
Abstract: Islamic Microfinance Institutions (IMFIs) have been established to provide Qard Hasan in promoting trade activities in terms of entrepreneurship development among the microfinance borrowers. This paper critically discuss the current practices of the IMFIs in the aspects of 1) the social values from the Islamic perspective that can provide a positive contribution for Islamic microfinance, 2) the application of Mobile Banking on its capability to widen the access of financial services, and 3) the implementation of Mobile Banking in facilitating the accounting information system. The study hopes to contribute significant findings towards providing viable groundwork for IMFIs’ successful model.
Keywords: Microfinance (MF); Islamic Microfinance Institution (IMFI); Mobile Banking (MB); Accounting Information System (AIS); Information Technology (IT);

Sergio Pastrana, Juan E. Tapiador, Agustin Orfila, Pedro Peris-Lopez,
DEFIDNET: A framework for optimal allocation of cyberdefenses in Intrusion Detection Networks,
Computer Networks,
Volume 80,
2015,
Pages 66-88,
ISSN 1389-1286,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2015.01.012.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1389128615000237)
Abstract: Intrusion Detection Networks (IDN) are distributed cyberdefense systems composed of different nodes performing local detection and filtering functions, as well as sharing information with other nodes in the IDN. The security and resilience of such cyberdefense systems are paramount, since an attacker will try to evade them or render them unusable before attacking the end systems. In this paper, we introduce a system model for IDN nodes in terms of their logical components, functions, and communication channels. This allows us to model different IDN node roles (e.g., detectors, filters, aggregators, correlators, etc.) and architectures (e.g., hierarchical, centralized, fully distributed, etc.). We then introduce a threat model that considers adversarial actions executed against particular IDN nodes, and also the propagation of such actions throughout connected nodes. Based on such models, we finally introduce a countermeasure allocation model based on a multi-objective optimization algorithm to obtain optimal allocation strategies that minimize both risk and cost. Our experimental results obtained through simulation with different IDN architectures illustrate the benefit of our framework to design and reconfigure cyberdefense systems optimally.
Keywords: Cooperative cyberdefense; Evasion attacks; Resilient cyberdefenses; Adversarial settings

Shannon W. Anderson, Margaret H. Christ, Henri C. Dekker, Karen L. Sedatole,
Do extant management control frameworks fit the alliance setting? A descriptive analysis,
Industrial Marketing Management,
Volume 46,
2015,
Pages 36-53,
ISSN 0019-8501,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.indmarman.2015.01.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0019850115000218)
Abstract: We examine the portfolio of management controls used to mitigate alliance risk at three separate firms in order to analyze the suitability of management control frameworks proposed by Simons (1995), Merchant and Van der Stede (2007), and Jensen and Meckling (1992) as descriptors of controls used in interfirm alliances. We find that, for the most part, these frameworks generalize to fit the data on how firms manage risks of strategic alliances. However, in applying these frameworks successively to the same data, we find that the researcher's theoretical lens imparts a distinctive understanding of the function of alliance management controls in relation to alliance risk. Specifically, we conclude that alliances that have value-creation at their root engender management controls that are well described by the management control frameworks of Simons (1995) and Merchant and Van der Stede (2007). These frameworks comprehend both economic and behavioral aspects of interfirm exchange and place much weight on coordination and communication between alliance partners. The management controls employed in alliances focused on transaction efficiency and cost minimization are described equally well by the framework of Jensen and Meckling (1992), which relies heavily on economic theory.
Keywords: Strategic alliances; Risk; Management controls

Riku Nishizaki, Yudai Takano, Fumiko Takeda,
Information Content of Internal Control Weaknesses: The Evidence from Japan,
The International Journal of Accounting,
Volume 49, Issue 1,
2014,
Pages 1-26,
ISSN 0020-7063,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.intacc.2014.01.009.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020706314000107)
Abstract: This paper investigates how capital markets in a code-law country, Japan, react to the disclosure of internal control weaknesses (ICW). The Japanese government attempted to implement a more concise, efficient, and, thus, less strict internal control reporting system than Section 404 of the US-SOX. In fact, for the first two years, the disclosure rate of ICW has been much lower in Japan than in the U.S. While market reactions to the disclosure of ICW are not significantly different from zero in our event study analysis, they become significantly negative after controlling for other information released around the disclosure date, audit quality, and other firm attributes. Our results are consistent with the notion that the disclosure of ICW is informative to the market because it is less frequent and exceptional in Japan.
Keywords: Internal control; Event study; Sarbanes–Oxley Act; Disclosure; Regulation; Institution

Changlong Tang, Jiqiang Liu,
Selecting a trusted cloud service provider for your SaaS program,
Computers & Security,
Volume 50,
2015,
Pages 60-73,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2015.02.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404815000139)
Abstract: Software as a Service (SaaS) offers major business and IT benefits that organizations are looking to take advantage of. SaaS adoption presents serious and unique security risks. Moving a company's sensitive data into the hands of cloud providers expands and complicates the risk landscape in which the organization operates. This paper highlights the significance and ramifications of a structured selection of a Cloud Service Provider (CSP) in achieving the required assurance level based on an organization's specific security posture. This paper proposes a holistic model, known as the Function, Auditability, Governability and Interoperability or FAGI, as an approach to help a Cloud Service Consumer (CSC) to engage and select a trusted CSP through four major decisions: Selecting a safe cloud that has adequate security functions; Choosing an auditable cloud via third-party certifications/assessments or self tests; Picking out a governable cloud that provides the required transparency; Opting for a portable cloud that ensures the desired portability. A case study reveals the FAGI approach offers an objective and efficient way to choose a qualified and trusted cloud service and in turn saves CSCs' time, effort, and grief.
Keywords: SaaS; Software as a service; Cloud security; Trusted cloud services; Function; Auditability; Governability; Interoperability; Security assurance

CJ Radford,
Challenges and solutions protecting data within Amazon Web Services,
Network Security,
Volume 2014, Issue 6,
2014,
Pages 5-8,
ISSN 1353-4858,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-4858(14)70058-3.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353485814700583)
Abstract: Amazon Web Services (AWS) dominates the market for cloud-based virtual infrastructure services. It tops all metrics for volume, compute capacity available, services and number of active customers. With a keen understanding of what developers, SaaS users and IT organisations want, it has pioneered new markets and continues to keep a commanding lead on the competition. Amazon Web Services (AWS) dominates the market for cloud-based virtual infrastructure services. However, while Amazon offers layered security within its management and network environment, it does not lock down EC2 and EBS accessible data. Ultimately, responsibility for the protection of the data within AWS instances is with the customer. CJ Radford of Vormetric looks at how you can benefit from what AWS has to offer while ensuring security.

Kevin W. Kobelsky,
A conceptual model for segregation of duties: Integrating theory and practice for manual and IT-supported processes,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 15, Issue 4,
2014,
Pages 304-322,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2014.05.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089514000293)
Abstract: A fundamental element of internal control is the maintenance of adequate segregation of duties (SoD), the allocation of work so that an individual cannot both perpetrate and conceal errors or fraud in the normal course of their duties. Notwithstanding its importance, there has been limited research describing the conceptual basis for determining how duties should be segregated. Significant differences exist between the SoD model proposed in the theoretical literature, the model described in the pedagogical and practitioner literature and auditing standards, and the practices commonly implemented by organizations. The purpose of this paper is to synthesize a prescriptive model for SoD that reflects the insights of all three domains to address the weaknesses of each, and can be applied effectively. The synthesized model calls for segregation of six sets of duties among a minimum of five employees: three duties for manual processes, including asset custody and recording, primary authorization, and secondary authorization; and three more duties for computer-supported processes: access control granting, primary authorization of access control granting, and secondary authorization of access control granting. The model differentiates between a primary SoD, which enables detection of errors and requires at least two employees for manual processes and three employees for IT-supported processes, and a secondary SoD, which helps organizations maintain a consistent, repeatable level of internal control and requires at least three employees in a manual setting and five employees in an IT-supported setting. This is significantly different from both the three-way segregation called for in the theoretical literature and the model described in the pedagogical and practitioner literature and auditing standards. Insight provided by the new model also provides an opportunity for organizations to enhance the quality and/or reduce the cost of internal control in practice. Several future research opportunities are identified.
Keywords: Segregation of duties; Internal control; Information security

Mehdi Adda, Jabril Abdelaziz, Hamid Mcheick, Rabeb Saad,
Toward an Access Control Model for IOTCollab,
Procedia Computer Science,
Volume 52,
2015,
Pages 428-435,
ISSN 1877-0509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2015.05.009.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050915008091)
Abstract: The increase in Internet-connected physical devices offers new possibilities and opportunities. This Internet of Things (IoT) fosters the development of new platforms, services and applications that connect the physical world (represented by physical objects) to the virtual world (represented by the Internet). The work presented here proposes a study of role and attribute-based access control models that tackle the security concerns of our already developed data sharing framework. The framework introduced a formal theoretical model, the IOTCollab domain specific language, and an integrated development environment that implements this model. We have extended this framework by completing the formal theoretical model with access control capabilities.
Keywords: IOTCollab; Internet of Things; Security; Access Control ;

Deborah J. Bodeau, Richard D. Graubart, Ellen R. Laderman,
Cyber Resiliency Engineering Overview of the Architectural Assessment Process,
Procedia Computer Science,
Volume 28,
2014,
Pages 838-847,
ISSN 1877-0509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2014.03.100.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S187705091400163X)
Abstract: Missions, business functions, organizations, and nations are increasingly dependent on cyberspace where attacks are no longer limited to simple discrete events such as the spread of a virus or a denial-of-service attack. Therefore, architecture and systems engineering must assume systems or components have been compromised and missions and business functions must continue to operate despite compromises. A growing number of technologies and architectural practices can be used to improve resilience to cyber threats. However, these improvements come with costs as well as benefits. Cyber resiliency assessments are intended to identify where, how, and when cyber resiliency techniques can be applied to improve architectural resiliency in a cost-effective way.
Keywords: cyber resiliency engineering; cyber resiliency assessment; architectural assessment process

Joanna Radomska,
Interrelation between Strategy Maps and other Implementation Tools and Actions,
Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences,
Volume 210,
2015,
Pages 58-65,
ISSN 1877-0428,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sbspro.2015.11.329.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877042815056761)
Abstract: Much attention in the literature of the subject is devoted to the analysis of barriers to the strategy implementation and the tools used for this purpose. Many authors emphasise the usability of the strategy map and indicate its functions in the strategy formulation and implementation processes. However, there are no publications on the interrelations between the strategy map and other aspects, such as the management system, employee involvement or changes in the organisational structure. The purpose of this paper is to examine correlations between these elements. The studies were carried out on a group of 200 Polish companies listed in prestigious rankings. In order to test the hypotheses proposed, the Kendall tau-b correlation analysis was used. It showed the existence of positive relationships between the use of the strategy map and activities associated with employee participation, as well as between the strategy map and other implementation tools (such as BSC, implementation programs or a system for monitoring the company's environment). Such dependences were also obtained for the relationships between the strategy map and the introduction of changes in the organisational structure and in the management system (including informal communication, a motivation system or regularity in measuring the progress in implementation).
Keywords: strategy execution; implementation tools; strategy maps

Elda Paja, Fabiano Dalpiaz, Paolo Giorgini,
Modelling and reasoning about security requirements in socio-technical systems,
Data & Knowledge Engineering,
Volume 98,
2015,
Pages 123-143,
ISSN 0169-023X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.datak.2015.07.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169023X1500052X)
Abstract: Modern software systems operate within the context of larger socio-technical systems, wherein they interact—by exchanging data and outsourcing tasks—with other technical components, humans, and organisations. When interacting, these components (actors) operate autonomously; as such, they may disclose confidential information without being authorised, wreck the integrity of private data, rely on untrusted third parties, etc. Thus, the design of a secure software system shall begin with a thorough analysis of its socio-technical context, thereby considering not only technical attacks, but also social and organisational ones. In this paper, we propose the STS approach for modelling and reasoning about security requirements. In STS, security requirements are specified, via the STS-ml requirements modelling language, as contracts that constrain the interactions among the actors in the socio-technical system. The requirements models of STS-ml have a formal semantics which enables automated reasoning for detecting possible conflicts among security requirements as well as conflicts between security requirements and actors' business policies. We apply STS to a case study about e-Government, and report on promising scalability results of our implementation.
Keywords: Security requirements; Automated reasoning; Requirements models

Intan Salwani Mohamed, Noor Hidayah Ab Aziz, Mohamad Noorman Masrek, Norzaidi Mohd Daud,
Mosque Fund Management: Issues on Accountability and Internal Controls,
Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences,
Volume 145,
2014,
Pages 189-194,
ISSN 1877-0428,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sbspro.2014.06.026.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877042814038841)
Abstract: This study is intended to discuss the issues in mosque fund management systems particularly on accountability and internal control practices. Mosques which are classified as Non–Profit Organizations deal with public funds received from government, corporate and public donations, control over the financial activities in handling funds received and expended by the organizations have become an interesting area to be investigated. Based on the discussion, it is suggested that internal control practices by Jameq Mosques on both receipt of income and funds disbursement require significant attention.
Keywords: Mosque; Accountability; Internal Controls;

Norazida Mohamed, Morrison Handley-Schachler,
Roots of Responsibilities to Financial Statement Fraud Control,
Procedia Economics and Finance,
Volume 28,
2015,
Pages 46-52,
ISSN 2212-5671,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S2212-5671(15)01080-1.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212567115010801)
Abstract: Financial statement fraud cases also occur when weak internal controls exist. Besides these reasons, the research differentiates between the two major types of financial statement fraud. This research discusses the responsibilities of financial statement fraud control by looking at agency theory, stakeholder theory, public interest theory; capital needs theory and communication theory. This discussion is in tandem with the principal investigation of internal control strategies in relation to financial statement fraud control. The output of this paper provides a comprehensive understanding of responsibilities for financial statement fraud control in the context of the above theories and finally contributes recommendations for improvement in financial statement fraud control in public interest entities.

Henry L. Friedman,
Implications of power: When the CEO can pressure the CFO to bias reports,
Journal of Accounting and Economics,
Volume 58, Issue 1,
2014,
Pages 117-141,
ISSN 0165-4101,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jacceco.2014.06.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165410114000317)
Abstract: Building on archival, anecdotal, and survey evidence on managers׳ roles in accounting manipulations, I develop an agency model to examine the effects of a CEO׳s power to pressure a CFO to bias a performance measure, like earnings. This power has implications for incentive compensation, reporting quality, firm value, and information rents. Predictions from the model provide potential explanations for the differing results from recent empirical studies on the impact of regulatory interventions like SOX and the extent to which the CEO׳s or CFO׳s incentives significantly impact on earnings management. The model also identifies conditions under which either a powerful or a non-powerful CEO can extract rents, which can help explain mixed empirical results on the association between CEO power and “excessive” compensation.
Keywords: Reporting; Bias; Countervailing incentives; CEO power

Peter Amthor, Winfried E. Kühnhauser, Anja Pölck,
WorSE: A Workbench for Model-based Security Engineering,
Computers & Security,
Volume 42,
2014,
Pages 40-55,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2014.01.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404814000066)
Abstract: IT systems with sophisticated security requirements increasingly apply problem-specific security policies for specifying, analyzing, and implementing security properties. Due to their key role for defining and enforcing strategic security concepts, security polices are extremely critical, and quality assets such as policy correctness or policy consistency are essential objectives in policy engineering. This paper argues for a tool-supported policy engineering approach to increase the efficiency and quality of security policy making. The paper's general topic is WorSE, a policy engineering workbench encompassing the automation of engineering steps, pre-built model patterns, integrated plausibility checks, and model analysis tools; the paper especially focuses on tools supporting model engineering and model analysis, and describes their theoretical foundations and practical application.
Keywords: Security engineering; Security policy engineering; Model safety analysis; Information flow analysis; Security model checking

Deepak H. Sharma, C.A. Dhote, Manish M. Potey,
Identity and Access Management as Security-as-a-Service from Clouds,
Procedia Computer Science,
Volume 79,
2016,
Pages 170-174,
ISSN 1877-0509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2016.03.117.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050916002489)
Abstract: In Security-as-a-service model the focus is on security delivered as cloud services; i.e. security provided through the cloud instead of on premise security solutions. Identity and Access Management (IAM) focuses on authentication, authorization, administration of Identities and audit. Its primary concern is verification of identity of entity and grating correct level of access for resources which are protected in the cloud environment. The IAM implemented as the cloud service can benefit the user with all the advantages offered by Security-as-a-service (SECaaS). We have implemented a proof-of-concept (POC) of IAM-aaS which is also evaluated. The relevant standards and technologies are also discussed for providing secure access to cloud users.
Keywords: Cloud Computing; Authentication; Authorization; Audit; Security Issues; Security-as-a-service

Nik Thompson, Ravi Ravindran, Salvatore Nicosia,
Government data does not mean data governance: Lessons learned from a public sector application audit,
Government Information Quarterly,
Volume 32, Issue 3,
2015,
Pages 316-322,
ISSN 0740-624X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.giq.2015.05.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0740624X15000593)
Abstract: Public sector agencies routinely store large volumes of information about individuals in the community. The storage and analysis of this information benefits society, as it enables relevant agencies to make better informed decisions and to address the individual's needs more appropriately. Members of the public often assume that the authorities are well equipped to handle personal data; however, due to implementation errors and lack of data governance, this is not always the case. This paper reports on an audit conducted in Western Australia, focusing on findings in the Police Firearms Management System and the Department of Health Information System. In the case of the Police, the audit revealed numerous data protection issues leading the auditors to report that they had no confidence in the accuracy of information on the number of people licensed to possess firearms or the number of licensed firearms. Similarly alarming conclusions were drawn in the Department of Health as auditors found that they could not determine which medical staff member was responsible for clinical data entries made. The paper describes how these issues often do not arise from existing business rules or the technology itself, but a lack of sound data governance. Finally, a discussion section presents key data governance principles and best practices that may guide practitioners involved in data management. These cases highlight the very real data management concerns, and the associated recommendations provide the context to spark further interest in the applied aspects of data protection.
Keywords: Data protection; Public sector; Governance; Case study; Data management

Ramzi A. Haraty, Mirna F. Naous, Azzam Mourad,
Assuring consistency in mixed models,
Journal of Computational Science,
Volume 5, Issue 4,
2014,
Pages 653-663,
ISSN 1877-7503,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jocs.2014.02.009.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877750314000325)
Abstract: Information systems security defines three properties of information: confidentiality, integrity, and availability. These characteristics remain major concerns throughout the commercial and military industry. Ordinary users have taken these features as basis for their businesses. Furthermore, users may find it necessary to combine policies in order to protect their information in a suitable way. However, inconsistencies may arise as a result of implementing multiple secrecy and privacy models; and therefore, render these services unsecure. In this paper, we propose an approach to detect and report inconsistencies when choosing mixed models for integrity and security. It is based on specifying the policies in first order logic and applying formal analysis. We demonstrate the feasibility of our proposition by applying it to the Clark Wilson and role based access control models. We use the Alloy language and analyzer to formalize the mixed model and check for any inconsistencies.
Keywords: Role based access control; Clark Wilson; Consistency; Alloy

Alex J. Nelson, Erik Q. Steggall, Darrell D.E. Long,
Cooperative mode: Comparative storage metadata verification applied to the Xbox 360,
Digital Investigation,
Volume 11, Supplement 2,
2014,
Pages S46-S56,
ISSN 1742-2876,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.diin.2014.05.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1742287614000474)
Abstract: This work addresses the question of determining the correctness of forensic file system analysis software. Current storage systems are built on theory that is robust but not invincible to faults, from software, hardware, or adversaries. Given a parsing of a storage system of unknown provenance, the lack of a sound and complete analytic theory means the parsing's correctness cannot be proven. However, with recent advances in digital forensic theory, a measure of its incorrectness can be taken. We present FSNView, an N-Version programming utility. FSNView reports exhaustively the metadata of a single disk image, using multiple storage system parsers. Each parser reports its perspective of the metadata in Digital Forensics XML, a storage language used recently in a study on differential analysis. We repurpose the tools used for studying the changes in file systems from time to the changes in file systems from perspective. The differences in metadata summaries immediately note bugs in at least one of the tools employed. Diversity in tools and their analysis algorithms strengthens the analysis of a storage subject. We apply file system differencing to study the external storage of the Microsoft Xbox 360 game console. The console's storage serves as an exemplar analysis subject; the described strategy is general to storage system analysis. The custom volume management and new-though-familiar file system are features typical to an embedded system analysis. Two open-source utilities developed solely for analyzing this game console, and a third developed for general file system forensics, are extended to compare storage system metadata perspectives. We present a new file system and revisions to the DFXML language, library, and differencing process, which were necessary to enable a principled, automatic evaluation of storage analysis tools.
Keywords: Differencing; Forensic strategies; Tool measurements; Embedded systems; Xbox 360; Digital forensics XML

Marianne Bradford, Julia B. Earp, Severin Grabski,
Centralized end-to-end identity and access management and ERP systems: A multi-case analysis using the Technology Organization Environment framework,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 15, Issue 2,
2014,
Pages 149-165,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2014.01.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089514000049)
Abstract: System security is a top issue facing global organizations. This study investigates the constraints and benefits of a successful centralized end-to-end identity and access management (CIAM) implementation and the moderating role that ERP systems have in the implementation. We apply the Technology Organization Environment (TOE) framework to a case study approach. We find that organizational and technological factors result in lapses in IT governance and act as barriers to CIAM. Environmental factors also hinder CIAM implementation. Additionally, ERP systems facilitate the development of a CIAM due to integration and standardization of identities and automated provisioning. When the ERP system supports CIAM, the organization and its employees experience significant benefits including single sign-on capabilities, increased security and privacy, efficiencies in user provisioning and password management, and audit process improvement. Our results will be of value to any organization implementing CIAM and ERP. Researchers can also use our findings to further study IAM, ERP or extensions to the TOE framework.
Keywords: Technology Organization Environment (TOE) Framework; Identity and access management (IAM); Enterprise Resource Planning System; Case Study; Centralized end-to-end identity and access management

Ai-juan ZHANG, Jing-xiang GAO, Cheng JI, Jiu-yun SUN, Yu BAO,
Multi-granularity spatial-temporal access control model for web GIS,
Transactions of Nonferrous Metals Society of China,
Volume 24, Issue 9,
2014,
Pages 2946-2953,
ISSN 1003-6326,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1003-6326(14)63430-0.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1003632614634300)
Abstract: The multi-granularity spatial-temporal-related access control (MSTAC) model was proposed to meet the spatial access control requirements for the service-oriented spatial data infrastructure (SDI). MSTAC extends the attribute constraints of role-based access control (RBAC), which includes the user's location attribute, the role's time constraint, the layer vector constraint of a map class, the scale and time constraints of a geographic layer, the topological constraints of geographic features, the semantic attribute expression constraints of geographic features, and the field constraint of feature views. Through this model, authorized users would be limited to access different granularity spatial datasets, such as the map granularity, the graphic layer granularity, the feature object granularity and the feature view granularity. Finally, the MSTAC model is achieved in a web GIS, which shows the positive and negative authorizations to different services in different data granularities and time periods.
Keywords: MSTAC; multi-granularity control; space; web GIS

M.L.M. Kiah, Ahmed Haiqi, B.B. Zaidan, A.A. Zaidan,
Open source EMR software: Profiling, insights and hands-on analysis,
Computer Methods and Programs in Biomedicine,
Volume 117, Issue 2,
2014,
Pages 360-382,
ISSN 0169-2607,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cmpb.2014.07.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169260714002909)
Abstract: Background
The use of open source software in health informatics is increasingly advocated by authors in the literature. Although there is no clear evidence of the superiority of the current open source applications in the healthcare field, the number of available open source applications online is growing and they are gaining greater prominence. This repertoire of open source options is of a great value for any future-planner interested in adopting an electronic medical/health record system, whether selecting an existent application or building a new one. The following questions arise. How do the available open source options compare to each other with respect to functionality, usability and security? Can an implementer of an open source application find sufficient support both as a user and as a developer, and to what extent? Does the available literature provide adequate answers to such questions? This review attempts to shed some light on these aspects.
Objective
The objective of this study is to provide more comprehensive guidance from an implementer perspective toward the available alternatives of open source healthcare software, particularly in the field of electronic medical/health records.
Methods
The design of this study is twofold. In the first part, we profile the published literature on a sample of existent and active open source software in the healthcare area. The purpose of this part is to provide a summary of the available guides and studies relative to the sampled systems, and to identify any gaps in the published literature with respect to our research questions. In the second part, we investigate those alternative systems relative to a set of metrics, by actually installing the software and reporting a hands-on experience of the installation process, usability, as well as other factors.
Results
The literature covers many aspects of open source software implementation and utilization in healthcare practice. Roughly, those aspects could be distilled into a basic taxonomy, making the literature landscape more perceivable. Nevertheless, the surveyed articles fall short of fulfilling the targeted objective of providing clear reference to potential implementers. The hands-on study contributed a more detailed comparative guide relative to our set of assessment measures. Overall, no system seems to satisfy an industry-standard measure, particularly in security and interoperability. The systems, as software applications, feel similar from a usability perspective and share a common set of functionality, though they vary considerably in community support and activity.
Conclusion
More detailed analysis of popular open source software can benefit the potential implementers of electronic health/medical records systems. The number of examined systems and the measures by which to compare them vary across studies, but still rewarding insights start to emerge. Our work is one step toward that goal. Our overall conclusion is that open source options in the medical field are still far behind the highly acknowledged open source products in other domains, e.g. operating systems market share.
Keywords: Open source software; EMR; EHR; Security; Usability

Glen L. Gray, Roger S. Debreceny,
A taxonomy to guide research on the application of data mining to fraud detection in financial statement audits,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 15, Issue 4,
2014,
Pages 357-380,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2014.05.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089514000323)
Abstract: This paper explores the application of data mining techniques to fraud detection in the audit of financial statements and proposes a taxonomy to support and guide future research. Currently, the application of data mining to auditing is at an early stage of development and researchers take a scatter-shot approach, investigating patterns in financial statement disclosures, text in annual reports and MD&As, and the nature of journal entries without appropriate guidance being drawn from lessons in known fraud patterns. To develop structure to research in data mining, we create a taxonomy that combines research on patterns of observed fraud schemes with an appreciation of areas that benefit from productive application of data mining. We encapsulate traditional views of data mining that operates primarily on quantitative data, such as financial statement and journal entry data. In addition, we draw on other forms of data mining, notably text and email mining.
Keywords: Auditing; Fraud; Data mining

W. Alec Cram, M. Kathryn Brohman, Yolande E. Chan, R. Brent Gallupe,
Information systems control alignment: Complementary and conflicting systems development controls,
Information & Management,
Volume 53, Issue 2,
2016,
Pages 183-196,
ISSN 0378-7206,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.im.2015.09.012.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378720615001135)
Abstract: This study presents a new concept called information systems control alignment, which examines the degree that the underlying characteristics of four main information systems (IS) control dimensions are mutually complementary. Using three case studies, our research uncovers two high-functioning control patterns – one with traditional characteristics and one with agile characteristics – that demonstrate positive alignment among the control environment, control mechanisms, socio-emotional behaviors, and execution of controls. By better understanding the circumstances that contribute to control conflicts, organizations can be increasingly mindful of cultivating a complementary relationship among the control dimensions when designing, implementing, monitoring and adjusting controls within IS processes.
Keywords: Control; Alignment; Information systems; IS process; Systems development

Gianluca Dini, Lanfranco Lopriore,
Password systems: Design and implementation,
Computers & Electrical Engineering,
Volume 47,
2015,
Pages 318-326,
ISSN 0045-7906,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2015.02.012.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045790615000506)
Abstract: Critical infrastructures require protection systems that are both flexible and efficient. Flexibility is essential to capture the multi-organizational and state-based nature of these systems, efficiency is necessary to cope with limitations of hardware resources. To meet these requirements, we consider a classical protection environment featuring subjects that attempt to access the protected objects. We approach the problem of specifying the access privileges held by each subject. Our protection model associates a password system with each object; the password system features a password for each access privilege defined for this object. A subject can access the object if it holds a key matching one of the passwords in the password system, and the access privilege corresponding to this password permits to accomplish the access. Password systems are implemented as hierarchical bidimensional one-way chains. Trade-offs are possible between the memory requirements for storage of a password system and the processing time necessary to validate a key.
Keywords: Access right; Distribution; Key; Password; Revocation

Jacob Z. Haislip, Adi Masli, Vernon J. Richardson, Marcia Weidenmier Watson,
External reputational penalties for CEOs and CFOs following information technology material weaknesses,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 17,
2015,
Pages 1-15,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2015.01.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089515000032)
Abstract: Information Technology (IT) serves as the foundation for an effective internal control system. Deficiencies in internal controls related to IT (as evidenced by SOX 404 IT internal control material weaknesses (ITMW)) can diminish the quality of financial reporting and lead to the dismissal of executives. We investigate if the labor market penalizes executives for publicly announced IT failures. Specifically, we examine the employment opportunities that CEOs and CFOs receive following their termination from a firm reporting an ITMW. We find that executives who lose their jobs due to an ITMW are less likely to find an equivalent job compared to executives dismissed for material weaknesses not related to IT. We also determine that this is especially true for the CFO, perhaps suggesting that firms hold the CFO more responsible for IT failures, particularly as it relates to financial reporting and internal controls.
Keywords: IT material weakness; Labor market consequences; Executive turnover; IT failure

Yang Lei, Bingjian Zhang, Xin Qi, Qinglin Chen, Chi-Wai Hui,
Study on constraints for heat removal duties of the main fractionator in delayed coking units,
Applied Thermal Engineering,
Volume 71, Issue 1,
2014,
Pages 573-580,
ISSN 1359-4311,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.applthermaleng.2014.07.028.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1359431114005900)
Abstract: A novel method is presented in this paper to quantitatively define the heat removal of the main fractionator in delayed coking units on the basis of a fractionating precision diagram (Houghland diagram) and column grand composite curve (CGCC). By referring to the CGCC method, several envelopes are illustrated at draw trays including the top pumparound draw, diesel draw, intermediate pumparound draw and gas oil draw, the energy and material balances are then calculated. Assuming practical near-minimum thermodynamic condition (PNMTC), the minimum liquid reflux flow is zero in the envelope for pumparound trays without product draw and the minimum liquid reflux flow is defined by Houghland diagram for pumparound trays with product draw. The PNMTC-CGCC is constructed by calculating the enthalpy-flow deficit to quantitatively define the heat removal constraints in each envelope. Meanwhile, the corresponding practical heat removal curve is constructed. A case study shows that the high temperature heat removal ratio within the main fractionator increased by 8%. The proposed method offers heat removal inequality constraints for the model to optimize the heat integration between the main fractionator and the heat exchanger network.
Keywords: Delayed coking; Houghland diagram; Main fractionator; Heat removal

Linh Thao Ly, Fabrizio Maria Maggi, Marco Montali, Stefanie Rinderle-Ma, Wil M.P. van der Aalst,
Compliance monitoring in business processes: Functionalities, application, and tool-support,
Information Systems,
Volume 54,
2015,
Pages 209-234,
ISSN 0306-4379,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2015.02.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306437915000459)
Abstract: In recent years, monitoring the compliance of business processes with relevant regulations, constraints, and rules during runtime has evolved as major concern in literature and practice. Monitoring not only refers to continuously observing possible compliance violations, but also includes the ability to provide fine-grained feedback and to predict possible compliance violations in the future. The body of literature on business process compliance is large and approaches specifically addressing process monitoring are hard to identify. Moreover, proper means for the systematic comparison of these approaches are missing. Hence, it is unclear which approaches are suitable for particular scenarios. The goal of this paper is to define a framework for Compliance Monitoring Functionalities (CMF) that enables the systematic comparison of existing and new approaches for monitoring compliance rules over business processes during runtime. To define the scope of the framework, at first, related areas are identified and discussed. The CMFs are harvested based on a systematic literature review and five selected case studies. The appropriateness of the selection of CMFs is demonstrated in two ways: (a) a systematic comparison with pattern-based compliance approaches and (b) a classification of existing compliance monitoring approaches using the CMFs. Moreover, the application of the CMFs is showcased using three existing tools that are applied to two realistic data sets. Overall, the CMF framework provides powerful means to position existing and future compliance monitoring approaches.
Keywords: Business process compliance; Compliance monitoring; Operational support

Xuan Hung Le, Terry Doll, Monica Barbosu, Amneris Luque, Dongwen Wang,
Evaluation of an Enhanced Role-Based Access Control model to manage information access in collaborative processes for a statewide clinical education program,
Journal of Biomedical Informatics,
Volume 50,
2014,
Pages 184-195,
ISSN 1532-0464,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbi.2013.11.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1532046413001883)
Abstract: Background
Managing information access in collaborative processes is a critical requirement to team-based biomedical research, clinical education, and patient care. We have previously developed a computation model, Enhanced Role-Based Access Control (EnhancedRBAC), and applied it to coordinate information access in the combined context of team collaboration and workflow for the New York State HIV Clinical Education Initiative (CEI) program. We report in this paper an evaluation study to assess the effectiveness of the EnhancedRBAC model for information access management in collaborative processes when applied to CEI.
Methods
We designed a cross-sectional study and performed two sets of measurement: (1) degree of agreement between EnhancedRBAC and a control system CEIAdmin based on 9152 study cases, and (2) effectiveness of EnhancedRBAC in terms of sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy based on a gold-standard with 512 sample cases developed by a human expert panel. We applied stratified random sampling, partial factorial design, and blocked randomization to ensure a representative case sample and a high-quality gold-standard.
Results
With the kappa statistics of four comparisons in the range of 0.80–0.89, EnhancedRBAC has demonstrated a high level of agreement with CEIAdmin. When evaluated against the gold-standard, EnhancedRBAC has achieved sensitivities in the range of 97–100%, specificities at the level of 100%, and accuracies in the range of 98–100%.
Conclusions
The initial results have shown that the EnhancedRBAC model can be effectively used to manage information access in the combined context of team collaboration and workflow for coordination of clinical education programs. Future research is required to perform longitudinal evaluation studies and to assess the effectiveness of EnhancedRBAC in other applications.
Keywords: Access control; Information management; Computer supported cooperative work; Workflow; Medical education; Knowledge representation

Xiwei Xu, Xin Ye, Liming Zhu, Qinghua Lu,
Role network model-based support for RESTful business processes,
Data & Knowledge Engineering,
Volume 94, Part A,
2014,
Pages 38-64,
ISSN 0169-023X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.datak.2014.08.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169023X14000810)
Abstract: The WWW is increasingly used for process-intensive business scenarios that connect services and applications together. Imperative programming and centralised traditional workflow engines lack the flexibility to support such distributed systems. RESTful business process (RESTfulBP) is an architectural style that introduces a set of constraints and uses process fragments to enable process coordination and choices at the endpoints to improve system adaptability, especially for human-intensive Web-based business processes. However, the original solution had two limitations: 1) the endpoint process fragments cannot distinguish between obligation and permission semantics to communicate richer choices of next-steps, and 2) it was time-consuming to create process fragment variants in an imperative style (either using complex workflow models or manually). In this paper, we propose a rule-based approach using the Role Network Model (RNM) to address these limitations. We introduce deontic logic into a process fragment and enable declarative generation of process fragments from rules. The proposed solution is evaluated in a real-world property valuation application using the B2B standard process from the Australian lending industry. The evaluation indicates that the new approach has improved both the design and runtime adaptability of the resulting system. Through surveys of other users employing our approach, it further demonstrates improved expressiveness, usability and general usefulness.
Keywords: Workflow management; Business process; Human-intensive systems; REST; Rule-based; RNM

Daniel Calegari, Nora Szasz,
Institution-based foundations for verification in the context of model-driven engineering,
Science of Computer Programming,
Volumes 107–108,
2015,
Pages 41-63,
ISSN 0167-6423,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scico.2015.02.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167642315000507)
Abstract: Within the Model-Driven Engineering (MDE) paradigm, a separation of duties between software developers is usually proposed to cope with formal verification issues. MDE experts are responsible for the definition of models and model transformations, while formal verification experts conduct the verification process. This schema should be aided by (semi)automatic translations from the MDE elements to their formal representation in the potentially many semantic domains used for verification, and also by translations between these domains. Translations may be useful to perform a heterogeneous verification, i.e. using different domains for the verification of each part of the whole problem, and also to integrate MDE elements with the specification and verification of other traditional software artifacts. However, this schema requires formal foundations allowing the representation of the MDE elements in such a way that it is possible to ensure that translations are semantic-preserving. The aim of this paper is to present a formalization of the MDE elements using the Theory of Institutions. We provide institutions for the representation of MDE elements based on the MOF and QVT-Relations standards. We also show how the theory assists with these requirements for the definition of an environment for the formal verification of MDE elements using heterogeneous verification approaches.
Keywords: Verification; Formal semantics; MOF; QVT-relations; Theory of institutions

Alessandro Armando, Serena Elisa Ponta,
Model checking authorization requirements in business processes,
Computers & Security,
Volume 40,
2014,
Pages 1-22,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2013.10.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404813001429)
Abstract: Business processes are usually expected to meet high level authorization requirements (e.g., Separation of Duty). Since violation of authorization requirements may lead to economic losses and/or legal implications, ensuring that a business process meets them is of paramount importance. Previous work showed that model checking can be profitably used to check authorization requirements in business processes. However, building formal models that simultaneously account for both the workflow and the access control policy is a time consuming and error-prone activity. In this paper we present a new approach to model checking authorization requirements in business processes that allows for the separate specification of the workflow and of the associated access control policy while retaining the ability to carry out a fully automatic analysis of the business process. To illustrate the effectiveness of the approach we describe its application to a Loan Origination Process subject to an RBAC access control policy featuring conditional permission assignments and delegation.
Keywords: Model checking; Security-sensitive business process; Authorization requirements; Access control; Organizational control; Automatic security analysis

Cristina Cabanillas, Manuel Resinas, Adela del-Río-Ortega, Antonio Ruiz-Cortés,
Specification and automated design-time analysis of the business process human resource perspective,
Information Systems,
Volume 52,
2015,
Pages 55-82,
ISSN 0306-4379,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2015.03.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306437915000460)
Abstract: The human resource perspective of a business process is concerned with the relation between the activities of a process and the actors who take part in them. Unlike other process perspectives, such as control flow, for which many different types of analyses have been proposed, such as finding deadlocks, there is an important gap regarding the human resource perspective. Resource analysis in business processes has not been defined, and only a few analysis operations can be glimpsed in previous approaches. In this paper, we identify and formally define seven design-time analysis operations related to how resources are involved in process activities. Furthermore, we demonstrate that for a wide variety of resource-aware BP models, those analysis operations can be automated by leveraging Description Logic (DL) off-the-shelf reasoners. To this end, we rely on Resource Assignment Language (RAL), a domain-specific language that enables the definition of conditions to select the candidates to participate in a process activity. We provide a complete formal semantics for RAL based on DLs and extend it to address the operations, for which the control flow of the process must also be taken into consideration. A proof-of-concept implementation has been developed and integrated in a system called CRISTAL. As a result, we can give an automatic answer to different questions related to the management of resources in business processes at design time.
Keywords: Automated analysis; Analysis operation; Business process management; Human resource perspective; RAL; Resource assignment

Richard Hunt,
Why governance, risk and compliance projects fail – and how to prevent it,
Computer Fraud & Security,
Volume 2014, Issue 6,
2014,
Pages 5-7,
ISSN 1361-3723,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-3723(14)70499-3.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361372314704993)
Abstract: Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) projects can bring unparalleled benefits to an organisation when implemented and used correctly. Business cases for companies implementing or upgrading their GRC tools tend to focus on reducing the costs of compliance and user administration and, of course, improving internal controls. However, even with a well-defined benefits realisation plan in hand, many companies fail to meet their objectives. Why is this the case? How can companies overcome these challenges and ensure that their GRC project will deliver the expected benefits? Business cases for companies implementing or upgrading their governance, risk and compliance (GRC) tools, tend to focus on reducing the costs of compliance and user administration. However, to realise the benefits of cost reductions, increased efficiency and improved controls, the right technology must first be selected and then embedded into the business and compliance process, and the technical aspects must be implemented to a high standard, explains Richard Hunt of Turnkey Consulting.

Diane Janvrin, Maureen Francis Mascha,
The financial close process: Implications for future research,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 15, Issue 4,
2014,
Pages 381-399,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2014.05.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089514000335)
Abstract: This study advances our understanding of the current financial close process. Attention to the topic is warranted for four reasons. First, economic volatility and growth in restatements have increased pressure on companies to report performance timely, completely, and accurately to market participants. Second, recent regulations have increased the workload for accountants at period end thus negatively impacting the efficiency of the close process. Third, several SEC filings have contained control weaknesses related to the financial close process. Finally, academic research suggests that the time needed to complete the financial close process may serve as a proxy for a company's internal information environment quality. We draw upon prior research and conduct a field investigation with corporate financial officers from 22 different organizations to examine the role of four factors – need to meet expectations, collaboration among multiple participants, estimation process, and ability to incorporate new regulations – in the financial close process. Results suggest that researchers should examine further how the need to meet (or beat) expectations impacts management's actions and the effectiveness and efficiency of the financial close process. Future work could also explore how hidden profile task research and technology advances may improve the financial close process. Finally, research needs to examine how ex post estimate analysis may improve not only estimate quality but also the effectiveness and efficiency of the financial close process.
Keywords: Financial close process; Performance reporting; Estimation process

Young Han Kim,
Energy saving of benzene separation process for environmentally friendly gasoline using an extended DWC (divided wall column),
Energy,
Volume 100,
2016,
Pages 58-65,
ISSN 0360-5442,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2016.01.087.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S036054421630024X)
Abstract: Benzene is a known carcinogen, and is desired to be removed from the gasoline additive for environmental reason. A benzene removal process from the additive, reformate of catalytic reformers, is proposed utilizing an extended DWC (divided wall column). The DWC reduces the processing load of the whole process especially in extractor, which employs high boiling point solvent requiring large amount of energy and costly utility. In this study the design of the proposed process is addressed along with the evaluation of energy saving, economics and thermodynamic efficiency. The evaluation results indicate the heating duty reduction of 56.8% from the proposed process over the conventional process and 64.6% reduction of cooling duty. The economics reveals the 26% reduction of investment and 56% reduction of utility cost from the proposed process. However, no significant improvement of thermodynamic efficiency is yielded.
Keywords: Energy saving; Benzene separation; Extended DWC (divided wall column); Reformate processing

Lorena González-Manzano, Ana I. González-Tablas, José M. de Fuentes, Arturo Ribagorda,
Extended U+F Social Network Protocol: Interoperability, reusability, data protection and indirect relationships in Web Based Social Networks,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 94,
2014,
Pages 50-71,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2014.04.044.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121214001083)
Abstract: An interconnected world is what current technologies look for, being Web Based Social Networks (WBSNs) a promising development in this regard. Four desirable WBSN features are identified, namely, interoperability, reusability, protection against WBSNs providers and indirect relationships. A protocol, called U+F, addressed interoperability and reusability of identity data, resources and access control policies between different WBSNs. In order to address the remaining couple of features, that is, achieving the protection of data against WBSNs providers and indirect relationships management across different WBSNs, this paper presents eU+F, an extension of U+F. A prototype is developed to verify the feasibility of implementing the proposed protocol in a real environment, as well as to compare its workload regarding three well-known WBSNs, Facebook, MySpace and LinkedIn.
Keywords: Data disclosures; Interoperability; Web Based Social Networks

Ira Haavisto, Gyöngyi Kovács,
A Framework for Cascading Innovation Upstream the Humanitarian Supply Chain through Procurement Processes,
Procedia Engineering,
Volume 107,
2015,
Pages 140-145,
ISSN 1877-7058,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.proeng.2015.06.067.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877705815010206)
Abstract: Procurement for humanitarian supply chains is often done by agencies that underlie public procurement regulations. These regulations tend to focus on transparency and openness, in other words, tender processes, price and quality. In other words, public procurement can be seen as hindering innovation through its rigidity. At the same time, humanitarian organizations face highly turbulent environments, sudden demand, and disaster- and context-specific requirements on items and technologies. Innovation in humanitarian supply chains needs to be swift but also robust, fitting an environment with disruptions in critical infrastructures such as energy and transportation. In spite of context-specific requirements, innovation does not stand alone but impacts on the supply chain through its requirements on suppliers, use in other echelons, and even, use across various sectors. Innovation thus cascades both upstream the supply chain and across sectors. Such cascades need to be identified, managed, or if detrimental, mitigated in the humanitarian supply chain. This paper therefore develops a framework for cascading innovation in humanitarian supply chains.
Keywords: Innovation; Humanitarian supply chains; Public procurement

Mark E. Lokanan,
Challenges to the fraud triangle: Questions on its usefulness,
Accounting Forum,
Volume 39, Issue 3,
2015,
Pages 201-224,
ISSN 0155-9982,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accfor.2015.05.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0155998215000228)
Abstract: Fraud is increasing with frequency and severity. In this paper, I explore the assertion of the fraud triangle as a useful practitioner framework employed to combat fraud. This paper is anchored through Fairclough's critical discourse theory, and is supported with evidence from three accounting fraud cases. The findings indicate that the Association of Certified Fraud Examiner's (ACFE) perpetuates a discourse that presents a restricted version of fraud. Fraud is a multifaceted phenomenon, whose contextual factors may not fit into a particular framework. Consequently, the fraud triangle should not be seen as a sufficiently reliable model for antifraud professionals.
Keywords: Fraud triangle; Fraud; Critical discourse analysis; Structure

Knud Brandis, Srdan Dzombeta, Knut Haufe,
Towards a framework for governance architecture management in cloud environments: A semantic perspective,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 32,
2014,
Pages 274-281,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2013.09.022.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X1300201X)
Abstract: This article introduces a model for cloud governance with a specific focus on its semantic aspects. It considers three dominant paradigms — the business–IT alignment paradigm, the governance paradigm, and the cloud paradigm. The model can be enhanced with specific tools to serve as a holistic framework for addressing governance of both traditional and cloud-based IT environments. The proposed consideration of semantic aspects within the model can enable a more feasible application of the model in complex architectural settings — both from the point of view of architecture assessment and architecture management.
Keywords: Cloud computing; Governance; Semantic technologies; Ontology; Enterprise architecture management

Zaini Zainol, Sherliza Puat Nelson, AbuBakar Malami,
Internal Human based Threats and Security Controls in Computerized Banking Systems: Evidence from Malaysia,
Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences,
Volume 65,
2012,
Pages 199-204,
ISSN 1877-0428,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sbspro.2012.11.111.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877042812050963)
Abstract: Malaysia being a unique capital market, practices dual banking system to capture the disaggregation of conventional and Islamic banking systems. However, like most financial institutions, no bank is isolated from security threats, even if, it comes from within the organization. Thus the objective of this study is to examine bank managers experience on human based security threats and the existence of human based security controls in computerized banking systems (CBS) in Malaysia. Since most major financial institutions operate in the capital city of Kuala Lumpur, questionnaires were sent to some of these bank branches in Kuala Lumpur. Findings revealed that managers recognized the personal policies recruitment procedure, segregation of duties and physical access control as ways to mitigate risks of human security threats. Hence, provide insights of how internal control system of a financial institution can be improved as a means to reduce security threats that have monetary implications. Finally, the study provides a platform for promoting an efficient and effective internal control practices among financial institutions in Malaysia.
Keywords: Human based threats; Human based controls; Malaysia; Computerized banking system

Anna Chernobai, Yukihiro Yasuda,
Disclosures of material weaknesses by Japanese firms after the passage of the 2006 Financial Instruments and Exchange Law,
Journal of Banking & Finance,
Volume 37, Issue 5,
2013,
Pages 1524-1542,
ISSN 0378-4266,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbankfin.2012.02.011.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378426612000544)
Abstract: We investigate the disclosures of material weaknesses in internal control mandated for Japanese firms under the 2006 Financial Instruments and Exchange Law. We find that the presence of a material weakness is more likely for firms that are younger, have better growth prospects, have a volatile operating environment, are financially constrained, and have weak governance structures. We examine the role of Japan’s main banks in this process and find that the likelihood of a material weakness is higher for firms with stronger links with their main banks. We also show that the financial health of the main banks themselves—proxied for by the banks’ BIS ratios and bad loan ratios—increases the likelihood of a material weakness in affiliated firms. This paper provides novel insights into the determinants of material weaknesses of Japanese firms since the passage of the law. Results from this study contribute to the literature on material weaknesses and relationship banking.
Keywords: Material weakness; Financial Instruments and Exchange Law; Relationship banking; Japan’s main banking system

M. Esna-Ashari, H.R. Rabiee, S.H. Mirian-Hosseinabadi,
Reliability of separation of duty in ANSI standard role-based access control,
Scientia Iranica,
Volume 18, Issue 6,
2011,
Pages 1416-1424,
ISSN 1026-3098,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scient.2011.08.016.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1026309811001660)
Abstract: ANSI RBAC is a standard for a consistent and uniform definition on Role Based Access Control features and their functional specifications ANSI (2004) [1]. We analyze both static and dynamic separation of duty constraints specifications in the ANSI RBAC standard and evaluate their reliabilities. We then suggest necessary improvements for making them completely reliable.
Keywords: Role-based access control; Separation of duty; Constraints; ANSI RBAC; Standard; Security; Reliability

S. Venkatesan, R. Baskaran, C. Chellappan, Anurika Vaish, P. Dhavachelvan,
Artificial immune system based mobile agent platform protection,
Computer Standards & Interfaces,
Volume 35, Issue 4,
2013,
Pages 365-373,
ISSN 0920-5489,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csi.2012.10.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920548912001122)
Abstract: An emerging technology for systems to communicate efficiently in the distributed environment is the mobile agent. The features of the mobile agent are too big when compared with the static agent and conventional communication system. However, the security issues of the mobile agent and mobile agent platform lags its usage. Even though the protection models are available for the mobile agent environment, the vulnerabilities still exist or the models need more computational time. To mitigate these issues related with the agent platform, this paper proposed an artificial immune system (AIS) based model. The proposed model will give the separation of duties and clones to handle multiple foreign agents simultaneously to achieve the computational efficiency. The experimental results and the constructed results from the experimental results have proved that this proposed model will consume less computational time when compared with the existing models. It will detect the malicious agent by extracting and matching the patterns with the available malicious patterns and also it can identify the new malicious patterns through monitoring the agent process.
Keywords: Software agent; Mobile agent security; Artificial immune system; Mobile agent platform protection

Jong-Hag Choi, Joonil Lee, Catherine Heyjung Sonu,
Determinants of human resource investment in internal controls,
China Journal of Accounting Research,
Volume 6, Issue 3,
2013,
Pages 167-185,
ISSN 1755-3091,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cjar.2013.06.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1755309113000257)
Abstract: Using the unique reporting environment in Korea, this study investigates the determinants of human resource investment in internal controls for 1352 listed firms disclosing the number of personnel who are in charge of internal control-related tasks (IC personnel) from 2005 to 2008. We find that the number of IC personnel within a firm and several key departments increase with firm size, number of employees, complexity and for Chaebols, and decrease in rapidly growing firms. Additional analysis reveals that the factors influencing internal control systems have an accentuated effect on firms with relatively larger firm size.
Keywords: Internal control personnel; Internal control systems; Internal control weaknesses

Mark dʼInverno, Michael Luck, Pablo Noriega, Juan A. Rodriguez-Aguilar, Carles Sierra,
Communicating open systems,
Artificial Intelligence,
Volume 186,
2012,
Pages 38-94,
ISSN 0004-3702,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.artint.2012.03.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0004370212000252)
Abstract: Just as conventional institutions are organisational structures for coordinating the activities of multiple interacting individuals, electronic institutions provide a computational analogue for coordinating the activities of multiple interacting software agents. In this paper, we argue that open multi-agent systems can be effectively designed and implemented as electronic institutions, for which we provide a comprehensive computational model. More specifically, the paper provides an operational semantics for electronic institutions, specifying the essential data structures, the state representation and the key operations necessary to implement them. We specify the agent workflow structure that is the core component of such electronic institutions and particular instantiations of knowledge representation languages that support the institutional model. In so doing, we provide the first formal account of the electronic institution concept in a rigorous and unambiguous way.
Keywords: Open systems; Agent communication; Formal languages; Electronic institutions

Hsing-Chung Chen, Marsha Anjanette Violetta,
A cognitive RBAC model with handover functions in small heterogeneous networks,
Mathematical and Computer Modelling,
Volume 58, Issues 5–6,
2013,
Pages 1267-1288,
ISSN 0895-7177,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mcm.2013.02.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0895717713000289)
Abstract: In communication networks, a cognitive network (CN) is a new type of data network which is used to solve some of the problems that face current networks. Cognitive radio (CR) is part of a cognitive network and a smart wireless communication system. CR is conscious of its surrounding environment, learns from the environment and adapts its internal states by making corresponding real-time changes in certain operating parameters. In this paper, we propose a Cognitive RBAC scheme which can be applied to Small Heterogeneous Networks (SHNs) with handover function. We propose the Cognitive RBAC model applying with handover function in SHNs by extending from the well-known RBAC model. The required definitions for the model are proposed in this paper. They can increase the ability of the conventional RBAC model to meet new challenges. In our scheme, we assume that Cognitive Server (CS) provides and manages the permissions of services, and also supports a variety of CRs and CNs. For more efficiently managing CR and CN and meeting the SHNs, we let a mobile user actively perceive current network situations to get permissions and access corresponding services under the negotiation made among CSs to get better QoS if handover occurs either by Inter-CS Handover or Intra-CS Handover. In this paper, the cognitive RBAC functions and their definitions are proposed and defined for new applications in a SHN environment.
Keywords: Cognitive radio; Cognitive networks; Small heterogeneous networks; RBAC; Negotiation RBAC; Handover; Cognitive server

Jorge Bernal Bernabe, Juan M. Marin Perez, Jose M. Alcaraz Calero, Felix J. Garcia Clemente, Gregorio Martinez Perez, Antonio F. Gomez Skarmeta,
Semantic-aware multi-tenancy authorization system for cloud architectures,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 32,
2014,
Pages 154-167,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2012.05.011.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X12001070)
Abstract: Cloud computing is an emerging paradigm to offer on-demand IT services to customers. The access control to resources located in the cloud is one of the critical aspects to enable business to shift into the cloud. Some recent works provide access control models suitable for the cloud; however there are important shortages that need to be addressed in this field. This work presents a step forward in the state-of-the-art of access control for cloud computing. We describe a high expressive authorization model that enables the management of advanced features such as role-based access control (RBAC), hierarchical RBAC (hRBAC), conditional RBAC (cRBAC) and hierarchical objects (HO). The access control model takes advantage of the logic formalism provided by the Semantic Web technologies to describe both the underlying infrastructure and the authorization model, as well as the rules employed to protect the access to resources in the cloud. The access control model has been specially designed taking into account the multi-tenancy nature of this kind of environment. Moreover, a trust model that allows a fine-grained definition of what information is available for each particular tenant has been described. This enables the establishment of business alliances among cloud tenants resulting in federation and coalition agreements. The proposed model has been validated by means of a proof of concept implementation of the access control system for OpenStack with promising performance results.
Keywords: Authorization system; Cloud computing; Multi-tenancy; Trust model; Semantic web

Ahmed Awad, Rajeev Goré, Zhe Hou, James Thomson, Matthias Weidlich,
An iterative approach to synthesize business process templates from compliance rules,
Information Systems,
Volume 37, Issue 8,
2012,
Pages 714-736,
ISSN 0306-4379,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2012.05.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306437912000683)
Abstract: Companies have to adhere to compliance requirements. The compliance analysis of business operations is typically a joint effort of business experts and compliance experts. Those experts need to create a common understanding of business processes to effectively conduct compliance management. In this paper, we present a technique that aims at supporting this process. We argue that process templates generated out of compliance requirements provide a basis for negotiation among business and compliance experts. We introduce a semi-automated and iterative approach to the synthesis of such process templates from compliance requirements expressed in Linear Temporal Logic (LTL). We show how generic constraints related to business process execution are incorporated and present criteria that point at underspecification. Further, we outline how such underspecification may be resolved to iteratively build up a complete specification. For the synthesis, we leverage existing work on process mining and process restructuring. However, our approach is not limited to the control-flow perspective, but also considers direct and indirect data-flow dependencies. Finally, we elaborate on the application of the derived process templates and present an implementation of our approach.
Keywords: Process synthesis; Analysis of business process compliance specification; Process mining

Nikolaos Papanikolaou, Sadie Creese, Michael Goldsmith,
Refinement checking for privacy policies,
Science of Computer Programming,
Volume 77, Issues 10–11,
2012,
Pages 1198-1209,
ISSN 0167-6423,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scico.2011.07.009.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167642311001559)
Abstract: This paper presents a framework for analysis and comparison of privacy policies expressed in P3P (Platform for Privacy Preferences). In contrast to existing approaches to policy analysis, which focus on demonstrations of equality or equivalence of policies, our approach makes it possible to check for refinement between policies. We automatically generate a CSP model from a P3P policy, which represents the policy’s intended semantics; using the FDR model checker, we then perform various tests (using process refinement) to determine (a) whether a policy is internally consistent, and (b) whether a given policy refines another by permitting similar data collection, processing and sharing practices. Our approach allows for the detection of subtle differences between practices prescribed by different privacy policies, the comparison of relative levels of privacy offered by different policies, and captures the semantics of policies intended in the original P3P standard. The systematic translation of policies to CSP provides a formal means of reasoning about websites’ privacy policies, and therefore the practices of various enterprises with regards to personal data.
Keywords: Privacy policy; Policy refinement; CSP; Model checking

Alistair M. Brown,
Nursing Accounting Competencies Related to HIV in a Papua New Guinea Context,
Journal of the Association of Nurses in AIDS Care,
Volume 24, Issue 5,
2013,
Pages e25-e34,
ISSN 1055-3290,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jana.2012.09.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1055329012001902)
Abstract: Nursing administration is an important part of the campaign to eliminate HIV across Papua New Guinea (PNG). This paper considers the critical importance of developing nursing leadership in effective accounting competencies in relation to HIV projects in PNG. The results of the study's textual analysis of audit reports of the Auditor General of PNG revealed a failure on the part of PNG's main health agencies involved with its national HIV program to provide competent financial reporting. In light of these results, this study shows how improving accounting and other financial competencies among nursing leaders would benefit the implementation of the PNG HIV national strategy. The findings of this study have implications not only for the internal control of HIV nursing competencies but also for nursing leadership related to HIV issues in a developing-country context.
Keywords: nursing accounting competencies; Nursing Council of PNG; textual analysis

Stefano Bistarelli, Fabio Martinelli, Francesco Santini,
A semiring-based framework for the deduction/abduction reasoning in access control with weighted credentials,
Computers & Mathematics with Applications,
Volume 64, Issue 4,
2012,
Pages 447-462,
ISSN 0898-1221,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.camwa.2011.12.017.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0898122111010728)
Abstract: We present a variant of the Datalog language (we call it DatalogW), which is able to deal with weights on ground facts. The weights are chosen from a semiring algebraic structure. Our goal is to use this language as a semantic foundation for trust-management languages, in order to express trust relationships associated with a preference (e.g., a cost, an uncertainty, a trust or a fuzzy value). We apply DatalogW as the basis to give a uniform semantics to a weighted extension of the RT language family, called RTW. Moreover, we show that we can model the deduction and abduction reasoning with semiring-based soft constraints: deduction can validate or not the access request, while abduction can be used to compute the missing credentials if the access is denied and the level of preference that would grant the access.
Keywords: Role-based Trust-management languages; Abduction; Deduction; Soft constraint

Renee Weiss, Lawrence Kalbers,
Determinants of auditor changes for non-accelerated filers,
Research in Accounting Regulation,
Volume 25, Issue 1,
2013,
Pages 13-29,
ISSN 1052-0457,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.racreg.2012.11.008.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1052045712000513)
Abstract: Significant accounting scandals and the imminent collapse of Arthur Andersen in 2001 precipitated a period of heightened regulatory response, most notably the enactment of the Sarbanes–Oxley Act of 2002. In the years that followed, the Securities and Exchange Commission created a separate class of non-accelerated filers (companies with public float of up to $75 million) and provided these companies with significant regulatory relief from certain financial reporting disclosure and auditing requirements, including the extension of scaled disclosure to these companies in 2007. Over the period of 2001 through 2007, as non-accelerated clients anticipated and responded to their different and evolving regulatory regime, audit firms were adjusting to the increased concentration in their market, a new monitoring structure, and significant changes to the scope of their work. We examine whether auditor–client misalignment is a significant determinant of auditor change during this period, particularly for non-accelerated filers, as large auditors sought to rebalance their client portfolios. We find evidence that auditor–client misalignment increases the likelihood of auditor change (resignation and dismissal) for non-accelerated, but not accelerated, filers. We also find that auditor–client misalignment increases the likelihood of downward changes to third-tier auditors for non-accelerated, but not accelerated, filers.
Keywords: Accelerated filers; Non-accelerated filers; Auditor change; Auditor-client misalignment

Sangsig Kim, Dae-Kyoo Kim, Lunjin Lu, Suntae Kim, Sooyong Park,
A feature-based approach for modeling role-based access control systems,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 84, Issue 12,
2011,
Pages 2035-2052,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2011.03.084.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121211000926)
Abstract: Abstract
Role-based access control (RBAC) is a popular access control model for enterprise systems due to its flexibility and scalability. There are many RBAC features available, each providing a different function. Not all features are needed for an RBAC system. Depending on the requirements, one should be able to configure features on a need basis, which reduces development complexity and thus fosters development. However, there have not been suitable methods that enable systematic configuration of RBAC features for system development. This paper presents an approach for configuring RBAC features using a combination of feature modeling and UML modeling. Feature modeling is used for capturing the structure of features and configuration rules, and UML modeling is used for defining the semantics of features. RBAC features are defined based on design principles of partial inheritance and compatibility, which facilitates feature composition and verification. We demonstrate the approach using a banking application and present tool support developed for the approach.
Keywords: Feature modeling; Role-based access control; UML

Hemantha S.B. Herath, Tejaswini C. Herath,
IT security auditing: A performance evaluation decision model,
Decision Support Systems,
Volume 57,
2014,
Pages 54-63,
ISSN 0167-9236,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dss.2013.07.010.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167923613001954)
Abstract: Compliance with ever-increasing privacy laws, accounting and banking regulations, and standards is a top priority for most organizations. Information security and systems audits for assessing the effectiveness of IT controls are important for proving compliance. Information security and systems audits, however, are not mandatory to all organizations. Given the various costs, including opportunity costs, the problem of deciding when to undertake a security audit and the design of managerial incentives becomes an important part of an organization's control process. In view of these considerations, this paper develops an IT security performance evaluation decision model for whether or not to conduct an IT security audit. A Bayesian extension investigates the impact of new information regarding the security environment on the decision. Since security managers may act in an opportunistic manner, the model also incorporates agency costs to determine the incentive payments for managers to conduct an audit. Cases in which the agency model suggests that it is optimal not to conduct an IT security audit are also discussed.
Keywords: Information technology management; Information technology audit; Information systems audit; Information security audit; Audit decision; Agency model

P. Salini, S. Kanmani,
Survey and analysis on Security Requirements Engineering,
Computers & Electrical Engineering,
Volume 38, Issue 6,
2012,
Pages 1785-1797,
ISSN 0045-7906,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2012.08.008.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045790612001644)
Abstract: Security Requirements Engineering is a new research area in software engineering, with the realization that security must be analyzed early during the requirements phase. Many researchers are working in this area; however, there is a lack in security requirements treatment. The security requirements are one of the non-functional requirements, which act as constraints on functions of the system. Organizations are depending on information systems for communicating and sharing information. Thus, IT security is becoming central in fulfilling business goals, to guard assets and to create trustworthy systems. To develop systems with adequate security features, it is essential to capture the security requirements. In this paper, we present a view on Security Requirements, issues, types, Security Requirements Engineering (SRE) and methods. We analyzed and compared different methods and found that SQUARE and Security Requirements Engineering Process methods cover most of the important activities of SRE. The developers can adopt these SRE methods and easily identify the security requirements for software systems.

Niels Lohmann,
Compliance by design for artifact-centric business processes,
Information Systems,
Volume 38, Issue 4,
2013,
Pages 606-618,
ISSN 0306-4379,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2012.07.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306437912001007)
Abstract: Compliance to legal regulations, internal policies, or best practices is becoming a more and more important aspect in business processes management. Compliance requirements are usually formulated in a set of rules that can be checked during or after the execution of the business process, called compliance by detection. If noncompliant behavior is detected, the business process needs to be redesigned. Alternatively, the rules can be already taken into account while modeling the business process to result in a business process that is compliant by design. This technique has the advantage that a subsequent verification of compliance is not required. This paper focuses on compliance by design and employs an artifact-centric approach. In this school of thought, business processes are not described as a sequence of tasks to be performed (i.e., imperatively), but from the point of view of the artifacts that are manipulated during the process (i.e., declaratively). We extend the artifact-centric approach to model compliance rules and show how compliant business processes can be synthesized automatically.
Keywords: Artifact-centric business processes; Process synthesis; Compliance management; Compliance by design

Valentina Viduto, Carsten Maple, Wei Huang, David López-Peréz,
A novel risk assessment and optimisation model for a multi-objective network security countermeasure selection problem,
Decision Support Systems,
Volume 53, Issue 3,
2012,
Pages 599-610,
ISSN 0167-9236,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dss.2012.04.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167923612000978)
Abstract: Budget cuts and the high demand in strengthening the security of computer systems and services constitute a challenge. Poor system knowledge and inappropriate selection of security measures may lead to unexpected financial and data losses. This paper proposes a novel Risk Assessment and Optimisation Model (RAOM) to solve a security countermeasure selection problem, where variables such as financial cost and risk may affect a final decision. A Multi-Objective Tabu Search (MOTS) algorithm has been developed to construct an efficient frontier of non-dominated solutions, which can satisfy organisational security needs in a cost-effective manner.
Keywords: Financial decision support; Risk assessment; Countermeasure selection problem; Multi-objective optimisation; Tabu search

Frédéric Cuppens, Nora Cuppens-Boulahia, Meriam Ben Ghorbel-Talbi, Stéphane Morucci, Nada Essaouni,
Smatch: Formal dynamic session management model for RBAC,
Journal of Information Security and Applications,
Volume 18, Issue 1,
2013,
Pages 30-44,
ISSN 2214-2126,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jisa.2013.07.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214212613000288)
Abstract: This paper extends RBAC sessions with shareability, reusability and switchability properties. We define the Smatch (Secure MAnagement of swiTCH) model in which authorized users can join, leave, reopen and reuse dynamic sessions. In Smatch, subjects can also share sessions and dynamically switch their role or function with other subjects from the same or different organizations. Subjects can authenticate using their function which will automatically activate the set of roles associated with this function. The Smatch model is based on the situation calculus which extends first order logic with actions. It provides means to specify contextual access control and authentication policies which apply to control functional behavior of dynamic sessions. We formally analyze decidability and complexity of several problems like decision, planning and proof of properties in the Smatch model. We also suggest an implementation of Smatch using Eyeos, an open-source web based Operating System.
Keywords: Security policy; Role management; Session management; Situation calculus; Access control model

Colin Tankard,
The promise of managed security services,
Network Security,
Volume 2012, Issue 9,
2012,
Pages 10-15,
ISSN 1353-4858,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-4858(12)70082-X.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S135348581270082X)
Abstract: Managed security services hold a lot of promise and are suited for use by small and medium-size organisations, as well as their larger counterparts. Such services allow organisations to improve their overall security posture and meet governance and compliance objectives. Managed encryption services are a good example of how managed security services are able to provide organisations with significant benefits by taking away many of the pain points and by being cost-effective and easy to deploy, as Colin Tankard of DigitalPathways explains. The market for managed security services is showing strong levels of growth. According to a report issued by Infonetics Research in 2012, the worldwide market for managed security services was worth $11.7bn in 2011 and will grow to $18bn in 2016.1 Among the reasons for the growth are the increased importance of network security and risk management owing to the growing volume and sophistication of network security incidents.

Xinxin Liu, Shaohua Tang, Qiong Huang, Zhiwen Yu,
An ontology-based approach to automated trust negotiation,
Computer Standards & Interfaces,
Volume 36, Issue 1,
2013,
Pages 219-230,
ISSN 0920-5489,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csi.2013.03.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920548913000214)
Abstract: We propose an ontology-based approach to automated trust negotiation (ATN) to establish a common vocabulary for ATN across heterogeneous domains and show how ontologies can be used to specify and implement ATN systems. The components of the ATN framework are expressed in terms of a shared ontology and ontology inference techniques are used to perform ATN policy compliance checking. On this basis, a semantically relevant negotiation strategy (SRNS) is proposed that ensures the success of a negotiation whenever it is semantically possible. We analyze the properties of SRNS and evaluate the performance of the ontology-based ATN.
Keywords: Automated trust negotiation; Ontology; Description logic; Negotiation strategy; Semantically

Eric E. Spires,
Trade-offs in audit testing,
Journal of Accounting Education,
Volume 30, Issue 2,
2012,
Pages 220-232,
ISSN 0748-5751,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaccedu.2012.08.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0748575112000462)
Abstract: This case is designed to help you to understand one of the fundamental concepts underlying audits of financial statements: the impact of testing controls on the substantive audit testing to be conducted. When determining the nature, timing and extent of substantive testing, the auditor must consider the costs involved in testing controls and compare that cost to the savings in substantive testing that can occur by relying on the tested controls. In other words, the auditor trades off control testing and substantive testing to determine the best mix of procedures. Similarly, for substantive evidence, the auditor must determine the best mix of substantive analytical procedures and tests of details. In this case, you will assess the trade-offs between the various types of auditing procedures (tests of controls, substantive analytical procedures and tests of details) to determine the optimal audit strategy.
Keywords: Audit risk; Audit evidence; Audit strategy; Internal controls

Alexios Mylonas, Vasilis Meletiadis, Lilian Mitrou, Dimitris Gritzalis,
Smartphone sensor data as digital evidence,
Computers & Security,
Volume 38,
2013,
Pages 51-75,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2013.03.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404813000527)
Abstract: The proliferation of smartphones introduces new opportunities in digital forensics. One of the reasons is that smartphones are usually equipped with sensors (e.g. accelerometer, proximity sensor, etc.), hardware which can be used to infer the user's context. This context may be useful in a digital investigation, as it can aid in the rejection or acceptance of an alibi, or even reveal a suspect's actions or activities. Nonetheless, sensor data are volatile, thus are not available in post-mortem analysis. Thus, the only way to timely acquire them, in case such a need arises during a digital investigation, is by software that collects them when they are generated by the suspect's actions. In this paper we examine the feasibility of ad-hoc data acquisition from smartphone sensors by implementing a device agent for their collection in Android, as well as a protocol for their transfer. Then, we discuss our experience regarding the data collection of smartphone sensors, as well as legal and ethical issues that arise from their collection. Finally, we describe scenarios regarding the agent's preparation and use in a digital investigation.
Keywords: Smartphones; Digital forensics; Investigation models; Sensor; Sensor data; Information gathering; Android

Hejiao Huang, Hélène Kirchner,
Secure interoperation design in multi-domains environments based on colored Petri nets,
Information Sciences,
Volume 221,
2013,
Pages 591-606,
ISSN 0020-0255,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2012.09.027.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025512006202)
Abstract: In a multi-domains application environment, distributed multiple organizations interoperate with each other. The local access control policies should correspondingly be integrated together in order to allow users of one domain to interact with each others. One of the key challenges of integrating policies is conflict detection and resolution while preserving policy consistency. This paper addresses several types of potential conflicts and consistency properties with a systematic and rigorous approach: graph theory, network flow technology and colored Petri nets are applied for specifying and verifying a secure interoperation design. The component-based integration of policies is applicable for both static and dynamic multi-domains environments.
Keywords: Secure interoperation; Conflict resolution; Colored Petri nets; Dynamic environment

Actor Chikukwa, Nina Enaasen, Hanne M. Kvamsdal, Magne Hillestad,
Dynamic Modeling of Post-combustion CO2 Capture Using Amines–A Review,
Energy Procedia,
Volume 23,
2012,
Pages 82-91,
ISSN 1876-6102,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.egypro.2012.06.063.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1876610212011034)
Abstract: The recent years have seen growing attention towards the study of dynamic behavior in post-combustion CO2 capture plants using amines, albeit, apparently contesting yet without comparison or critique. This paper reviews what has been reported in literature concerning issues pertinent to transient behavior of CO2 capture including interaction with power plants. Details of models used, their validation and modeling tools as well as an attempt to piece-out convergent points from the various conclusions are given. Knowledge gaps and areas that still need more attention are emphasized.
Keywords: Dynamic modeling; Post-combustion; Flexibility; Integration; Review

Daniel Calegari, Nora Szasz,
Verification of Model Transformations: A Survey of the State-of-the-Art,
Electronic Notes in Theoretical Computer Science,
Volume 292,
2013,
Pages 5-25,
ISSN 1571-0661,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.entcs.2013.02.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1571066113000042)
Abstract: Within the Model-Driven Engineering paradigm, software development is based on the definition of models providing different views of the system to be constructed and model transformations supporting a (semi)automatic development process. The verification of models and model transformations is crucial in order to improve the quality and the reliability of the products developed using this paradigm. In this context, the verification of a model transformation has three main components: the transformation itself, the properties of interest addressed, and the verification techniques used to establish the properties. In this paper we present an exhaustive review of the literature on the verification of model transformations analyzing these three components. We also take a problem-based approach exemplifying those aspects of interest that could be verified on a model transformation and show how this can be done. Finally, we conclude the need of an integrated environment for addressing the heterogeneous verification of model transformations.
Keywords: Model-Driven Engineering; model transformations; formal verification

Benita Gullkvist, Annukka Jokipii,
Perceived importance of red flags across fraud types,
Critical Perspectives on Accounting,
Volume 24, Issue 1,
2013,
Pages 44-61,
ISSN 1045-2354,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpa.2012.01.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1045235412000123)
Abstract: The purpose of this study is to examine whether internal auditors, external auditors and economic crime investigators perceive the importance of red flags as significantly different across two fraud types: fraudulent financial reporting and misappropriation of assets, as well as across within-subject categories. A total of 471 useable responses were collected using a web-based survey. The findings indicate that significant differences exist on both single and aggregate mean levels among the participant groups. Internal auditors report a higher perceived importance of the red flags related to detecting misappropriation of assets than of those related to fraudulent financial reporting, whereas the opposite is true for economic crime investigators. For external auditors, only small differences in aggregate means between misappropriation of assets and fraudulent financial reporting were found. As the sensitivity to fraud type may affect professional planning, procedures and techniques with regard to fraud prevention, detection and investigation, the results may have both practical and theoretical implications. Further, the focus on both fraud types adds to prior literature on fraud.
Keywords: Critical; Public Interest; Fraud; Auditing; Economic Crime; Critique; Intérêt public; Fraude; 批判性; 公共利益; 欺诈; Crítica; Interés Público; Fraude

Ivan Marsa-Maestre, Enrique de la Hoz, Jose Manuel Gimenez-Guzman, Miguel A. Lopez-Carmona,
Design and evaluation of a learning environment to effectively provide network security skills,
Computers & Education,
Volume 69,
2013,
Pages 225-236,
ISSN 0360-1315,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compedu.2013.07.022.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360131513001899)
Abstract: Information system security and network security are topics of increasing importance in the information society. They are also topics where the adequate education of professionals requires the use of specific laboratory environments where the practical aspects of the discipline may be addressed. However, most approaches currently used are excessively static and lack the flexibility that the education requirements of security professionals demand. In this paper we present NEMESIS, a scenario generation framework for education on system and network security, which is based on virtualization technologies and has been designed to be open, distributed, modular, scalable and flexible. Finally, an example scenario is described and some results validating the benefits of its use in undergraduate computer security courses are shown.
Keywords: Architectures for educational technology systems; Distributed learning environments; Interactive learning environments; Simulations; Teaching/learning strategies

Amit Sasturkar, Ping Yang, Scott D. Stoller, C.R. Ramakrishnan,
Policy analysis for Administrative Role-Based Access Control,
Theoretical Computer Science,
Volume 412, Issue 44,
2011,
Pages 6208-6234,
ISSN 0304-3975,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tcs.2011.05.009.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0304397511003914)
Abstract: Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) is a widely used model for expressing access control policies. In large organizations, the RBAC policy may be collectively managed by many administrators. Administrative RBAC (ARBAC) models express the authority of administrators, thereby specifying how an organization’s RBAC policy may change. Changes by one administrator may interact in unintended ways with changes by other administrators. Consequently, the effect of an ARBAC policy is hard to understand by simple inspection. In this paper, we consider the problem of analyzing ARBAC policies. Specifically, we consider reachability properties (e.g., whether a user can eventually be assigned to a role by a group of administrators), availability properties (e.g., whether a user cannot be removed from a role by a group of administrators), containment properties (e.g., every member of one role is also a member of another role) satisfied by a policy, and information flow properties. We show that reachability analysis for ARBAC is PSPACE-complete. We also give algorithms and complexity results for reachability and related analysis problems for several categories of ARBAC policies, defined by simple restrictions on the policy language. Some of these results are based on the connection we establish between security policy analysis and planning problems in Artificial Intelligence.

Tao Wu, Xiaobing Pei, Yongzhong Lu, Changqing Chen, Liang Gao,
A distributed collaborative product design environment based on semantic norm model and role-based access control,
Journal of Network and Computer Applications,
Volume 36, Issue 6,
2013,
Pages 1431-1440,
ISSN 1084-8045,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2013.02.018.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1084804513000568)
Abstract: With the boom of Internet Technology, it becomes possible to combine designers from different disciplines into one team to support product design globally. In this paper, a distributed collaborative product design environment is presented to support top-down process oriented product design. In conceptual design stage, the artifact is managed by semantic norm model (SNM). In SNM, the designers can define virtual components at early design stage and instantiate those components at later detailed design stage. By role-based access control (RBAC), different roles with corresponding permissions could be assigned to distributed designers, and the designers could concurrently modify different components of the product relevant to his or her roles. Based on the SNM and RBAC system, a distributed collaborative product design environment is developed and the top-down oriented product design process is demonstrated.
Keywords: Distributed product design; Semantic norm model; Role based access control; Top-down design environment

C.F. Haill, P. Newell, C. Ford, M. Whitley, J. Cox, M. Wallis, R. Best, P.J. Jenks,
Compartmentalization of wards to cohort symptomatic patients at the beginning and end of norovirus outbreaks,
Journal of Hospital Infection,
Volume 82, Issue 1,
2012,
Pages 30-35,
ISSN 0195-6701,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhin.2012.05.015.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0195670112001727)
Abstract: Summary
Background
Outbreaks of norovirus can have a significant operational and financial impact on healthcare establishments.
Aim
To assess whether containment of symptomatic patients in single rooms and bays at the beginning and end of norovirus outbreaks reduced the length of bed closure.
Methods
In 2007, we introduced a new strategy to limit the operational impact of hospital outbreaks of norovirus. Early in an outbreak, symptomatic patients were cohorted in single rooms or bays in an attempt to contain the outbreak without closing the entire ward. Once a ward had been closed, and as beds became available through discharges, patients were decanted into single rooms or empty bays with doors to facilitate earlier cleaning and opening of affected areas on the same ward. The impact of these changes was assessed by comparing outbreak data for two periods before and after implementation of the new strategy.
Findings
Prior to June 2007, 90% of outbreaks were managed by closure of an entire ward, compared with only 54% from June 2007 onwards. The duration of closure was significantly shorter for bays compared with entire wards, both before (3.5 vs 6, P = 0.0327) and after (3 vs 5, P < 0.0001) June 2007. When considering all outbreaks, there was a significant reduction in duration of closure after the change in strategy (6 vs 5, P = 0.007).
Conclusion
Using ward compartmentalization to cohort affected patients at the beginning and end of norovirus outbreaks improved the efficiency of outbreak management and reduced operational disruption.
Keywords: Bay; Closure; Containment; Norovirus; Outbreak; Ward compartmentalization

Xuan Hung Le, Terry Doll, Monica Barbosu, Amneris Luque, Dongwen Wang,
An enhancement of the Role-Based Access Control model to facilitate information access management in context of team collaboration and workflow,
Journal of Biomedical Informatics,
Volume 45, Issue 6,
2012,
Pages 1084-1107,
ISSN 1532-0464,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbi.2012.06.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1532046412000913)
Abstract: Although information access control models have been developed and applied to various applications, few of the previous works have addressed the issue of managing information access in the combined context of team collaboration and workflow. To facilitate this requirement, we have enhanced the Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) model through formulating universal constraints, defining bridging entities and contributing attributes, extending access permissions to include workflow contexts, synthesizing a role-based access delegation model to target on specific objects, and developing domain ontologies as instantiations of the general model to particular applications. We have successfully applied this model to the New York State HIV Clinical Education Initiative (CEI) project to address the specific needs of information management in collaborative processes. An initial evaluation has shown this model achieved a high level of agreement with an existing system when applied to 4576 cases (kappa=0.801). Comparing to a reference standard, the sensitivity and specificity of the enhanced RBAC model were at the level of 97–100%. These results indicate that the enhanced RBAC model can be effectively used for information access management in context of team collaboration and workflow to coordinate clinical education programs. Future research is required to incrementally develop additional types of universal constraints, to further investigate how the workflow context and access delegation can be enriched to support the various needs on information access management in collaborative processes, and to examine the generalizability of the enhanced RBAC model for other applications in clinical education, biomedical research, and patient care.
Keywords: Access control; Computation model; Information management; Computer supported cooperative work; Workflow; Medical education

Xue Bai, Ram Gopal, Manuel Nunez, Dmitry Zhdanov,
A decision methodology for managing operational efficiency and information disclosure risk in healthcare processes,
Decision Support Systems,
Volume 57,
2014,
Pages 406-416,
ISSN 0167-9236,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dss.2012.10.046.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167923612003211)
Abstract: This paper addresses two critical challenges faced by healthcare organizations: significant personnel shortages and mandates to safeguard patient safety and information security. We develop a two-stage decision making methodology to optimize the healthcare workflow task assignments and mitigate information disclosure risks. While the first stage throughput optimization formulation maximizes operational efficiencies, it can expose organizations to information disclosure risks that can be exploited to violate patient safety and information security. To address the ensuing privacy and fraud concerns we define task-based conflict sets to assess disclosure risks with optimal task assignments. In the second stage of the solution methodology, various security control strategies – task based and employee based – are incorporated into a decision support model to help decision makers to effectively manage and achieve workflow efficiency and meet information security requirements. For practical settings where certain parameters are not obtainable or the problem is computationally intractable, we provide a sequential-decision approach that could yield approximate partial solutions. We conduct an extensive computational analysis of a clinical workflow process to illustrate the practical benefits of the proposed methodology.
Keywords: Information disclosure; Risk; Workflow efficiency; Control; Healthcare processes; Optimization

Nathalie Baracaldo, James Joshi,
An adaptive risk management and access control framework to mitigate insider threats,
Computers & Security,
Volume 39, Part B,
2013,
Pages 237-254,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2013.08.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404813001119)
Abstract: Insider Attacks are one of the most dangerous threats organizations face today. An insider attack occurs when a person authorized to perform certain actions in an organization decides to abuse the trust, and harm the organization. These attacks may negatively impact the reputation of the organization, its productivity, and may produce losses in revenue and clients. Avoiding insider attacks is a daunting task. While it is necessary to provide privileges to employees so they can perform their jobs efficiently, providing too many privileges may backfire when users accidentally or intentionally abuse their privileges. Hence, finding a middle ground, where the necessary privileges are provided and malicious usage are avoided, is necessary. In this paper, we propose a framework that extends the role-based access control (RBAC) model by incorporating a risk assessment process, and the trust the system has on its users. Our framework adapts to suspicious changes in users' behavior by removing privileges when users' trust falls below a certain threshold. This threshold is computed based on a risk assessment process that includes the risk due to inference of unauthorized information. We use a Coloured-Petri net to detect inferences. We also redefine the existing role activation problem, and propose an algorithm that reduces the risk exposure. We propose a methodology to help administrators managing inference threats. We present experimental evaluation to validate our work.
Keywords: Trust; Risk management; Insider threat; Access control; Role based access control; Inference threat

Waldemar Hummer, Patrick Gaubatz, Mark Strembeck, Uwe Zdun, Schahram Dustdar,
Enforcement of entailment constraints in distributed service-based business processes,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 55, Issue 11,
2013,
Pages 1884-1903,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2013.05.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584913001006)
Abstract: Context
A distributed business process is executed in a distributed computing environment. The service-oriented architecture (SOA) paradigm is a popular option for the integration of software services and execution of distributed business processes. Entailment constraints, such as mutual exclusion and binding constraints, are important means to control process execution. Mutually exclusive tasks result from the division of powerful rights and responsibilities to prevent fraud and abuse. In contrast, binding constraints define that a subject who performed one task must also perform the corresponding bound task(s).
Objective
We aim to provide a model-driven approach for the specification and enforcement of task-based entailment constraints in distributed service-based business processes.
Method
Based on a generic metamodel, we define a domain-specific language (DSL) that maps the different modeling-level artifacts to the implementation-level. The DSL integrates elements from role-based access control (RBAC) with the tasks that are performed in a business process. Process definitions are annotated using the DSL, and our software platform uses automated model transformations to produce executable WS-BPEL specifications which enforce the entailment constraints. We evaluate the impact of constraint enforcement on runtime performance for five selected service-based processes from existing literature.
Results
Our evaluation demonstrates that the approach correctly enforces task-based entailment constraints at runtime. The performance experiments illustrate that the runtime enforcement operates with an overhead that scales well up to the order of several ten thousand logged invocations. Using our DSL annotations, the user-defined process definition remains declarative and clean of security enforcement code.
Conclusion
Our approach decouples the concerns of (non-technical) domain experts from technical details of entailment constraint enforcement. The developed framework integrates seamlessly with WS-BPEL and the Web services technology stack. Our prototype implementation shows the feasibility of the approach, and the evaluation points to future work and further performance optimizations.
Keywords: Identity and access management; Business process management; Entailment constraints; Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA); WS-BPEL

Ligang He, Chenlin Huang, Kewei Duan, Kenli Li, Hao Chen, Jianhua Sun, Stephen A. Jarvis,
Modeling and analyzing the impact of authorization on workflow executions,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 28, Issue 8,
2012,
Pages 1177-1193,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2012.03.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X12000568)
Abstract: It has been a subject of a significant amount of research to automate the execution of workflows (or business processes) on computer resources. However, many workflow scenarios still require human involvement, which introduces additional security and authorization concerns. This paper presents a novel mechanism for modeling the execution of workflows with human involvement under Role-based Authorization Control. Our modeling approach applies Colored Timed Petri-Nets to allow various authorization constraints to be modeled, including role, temporal, cardinality, BoD (Binding of Duty), SoD (Separation of Duty), role hierarchy constraints etc. We also model the execution of tasks with different levels of human involvement and as such allow the interactions between workflow authorization and workflow execution to be captured. The modeling mechanism is developed in such a way that the construction of the authorization model for a workflow can be automated. This feature is very helpful for modeling large collections of authorization policies and/or complex workflows. A Petri-net toolkit, the CPN Tools, is utilized in the development of the modeling mechanism and to simulate the constructed models. This paper also presents the methods to analyze and calculate the authorization overhead as well as the performance data in terms of various metrics through the model simulations. Based on the simulation results, this paper further proposes the approaches to improving performance given the deployed authorization policies. This work can be used for investigating the impact of authorization, for capacity planning, for the design of workload management strategies, and also to estimate execution performance, when human resources and authorization policies are employed in tandem.
Keywords: Modeling; Authorization; Workflow; RBAC

Vaise Patu, Shuichiro Yamamoto,
How to Develop Security Case by Combining Real Life Security Experiences (Evidence) with D-case,
Procedia Computer Science,
Volume 22,
2013,
Pages 954-959,
ISSN 1877-0509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2013.09.179.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050913009721)
Abstract: In this paper we present a new reasonable method for writing security cases. A security case is one form of assurance case as there are other forms such as safety case, reliability case, dependability case and so on. Assurance case is a technique to structure assurance requirements concerning a system. It contains argumentation structure and evidence to convince a stakeholder that a certain concern on whether it is safety, reliability or security is being assured by the implementation of proper and appropriate actions that counters the risks or vulnerabilities raised by the concerned stakeholder. A security case is somehow very unpopular if we compare it to a safety case. And therefore, it is safe to say that so far; safety cases are better versed than security cases. However, due to the ever-growing concerns of the area of Cyber-Security, it is extremely crucial to produce effective and accurate security cases for cyber-systems.
Keywords: Assurance Case; Security Case; Dependable System; Networking Security; Goal Structuring Notation; Risk Management

Eugenia I. Papagiannakopoulou, Maria N. Koukovini, Georgios V. Lioudakis, Joaquin Garcia-Alfaro, Dimitra I. Kaklamani, Iakovos S. Venieris, Frédéric Cuppens, Nora Cuppens-Boulahia,
A privacy-aware access control model for distributed network monitoring,
Computers & Electrical Engineering,
Volume 39, Issue 7,
2013,
Pages 2263-2281,
ISSN 0045-7906,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2012.08.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S004579061200153X)
Abstract: In this paper, we introduce a new access control model that aims at addressing the privacy implications surrounding network monitoring. In fact, despite its importance, network monitoring is natively leakage-prone and, moreover, this is exacerbated due to the complexity of the highly dynamic monitoring procedures and infrastructures, that may include multiple traffic observation points, distributed mitigation mechanisms and even inter-operator cooperation. Conceived on the basis of data protection legislation, the proposed approach is grounded on a rich in expressiveness information model, that captures all the underlying monitoring concepts along with their associations. The model enables the specification of contextual authorisation policies and expressive separation and binding of duty constraints. Finally, two key innovations of our work consist in the ability to define access control rules at any level of abstraction and in enabling a verification procedure, which results in inherently privacy-aware workflows, thus fostering the realisation of the Privacy by Design vision.

Willy Picard,
A formalization of social requirements for human interactions with service protocols,
Information Sciences,
Volume 238,
2013,
Pages 1-21,
ISSN 0020-0255,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2013.02.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S002002551300114X)
Abstract: Collaboration models and tools aim at improving the efficiency and effectiveness of human interactions. Although social relations among collaborators have been identified as having a strong influence on collaboration, they are still insufficiently taken into account in current collaboration models and tools. In this paper, the concept of service protocols is proposed as a model for human interactions supporting social requirements, i.e., sets of constraints on the relations among interacting humans. Service protocols have been proposed as an answer to the need for models for human interactions in which not only the potential sequences of activities are specified – as in process models – but also the constraints on the relations among collaborators. Service protocols are based on two main ideas: first, service protocols are rooted in the service-oriented architecture (SOA): each service protocol contains a service-oriented summary which provides a representation of the activities of an associated process model in SOA terms. Second, a class-based graph—referred to as a service network schema—restricts the set of potential service elements that may participate in the service protocol by defining constraints on nodes and constraints on arcs, i.e., social requirements. Another major contribution to the modeling of human interactions is a unified approach organized around the concept of service, understood in a broad sense with services being not only Web services, but also provided by humans.
Keywords: Human interaction; Social requirement; Process modeling; Service protocol; Social network

Zhi-nian Zhai, Ya-hui Lu, Ping-Jian Zhang, Zhi-hao Chen,
Association-Based Active Access Control models with balanced scalability and flexibility,
Computers in Industry,
Volume 65, Issue 1,
2014,
Pages 116-123,
ISSN 0166-3615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2013.07.013.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166361513001619)
Abstract: In existing Active Access Control (AAC) models, the scalability and flexibility of security policy specification should be well balanced, especially: (1) authorizations to plenty of tasks should be simplified; (2) team workflows should be enabled; (3) fine-grained constraints should be enforced. To address this issue, a family of Association-Based Active Access Control (ABAAC) models is proposed. In the minimal model ABAAC0, users are assigned to roles while permissions are assigned to task-role associations. In a workflow case, to execute such an association some users assigned to its component role will be allocated. The association's assigned permissions can be performed by them during the task is running in the case. In ABAAC1, a generalized association is employed to extract common authorizations from multiple associations. In ABAAC2, a fine-grained separation of duty (SoD) is enforced among associations. In the maximal model ABAAC3, all these features are integrated, and similar constraints can be specified more concisely. Using a software workflow, case validation is performed. Comparison with a representative association based AAC model and the most scalable AAC model so far indicates that: (1) enough scalability is achieved; (2) without decomposition of a task, different permissions can be authorized to multiple roles in it; (3) separation of more fine-grained duties than roles and tasks can be enforced.
Keywords: Access control; Workflow; Task; Role; Scalability; Flexibility

João Rosa, Cláudio Teixeira, Joaquim Sousa Pinto,
Risk factors in e-justice information systems,
Government Information Quarterly,
Volume 30, Issue 3,
2013,
Pages 241-256,
ISSN 0740-624X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.giq.2013.02.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0740624X13000385)
Abstract: With the increase of the communication systems' bandwidth and with the dissemination of the information systems, the fields of information and communication technology application expanded in almost all directions. E-government in general and e-justice in particular are no exception and these areas suffered strong changes in the last decades. There is no democracy without a system of swift and transparent justice. Therefore, the introduction of information systems in the courts allows a decrease both in time and number of pending processes, boosting the efficiency of the services provided to citizens and to the society in general. This paper analyzes and discusses different worldwide e-justice experiences. Special emphasis is addressed on the risk factors on the design, development and implementation of such systems. Finally, we present our own experience in the development of an e-justice information system in Cape Verde, an African development country. The scope of our system ranges from the design team until the training of the justice agents.
Keywords: E-justice; E-government; Risk factors; Information system; Developing countries; Cape Verde

Marc Lee,
The inside threat to public organisations,
Computer Fraud & Security,
Volume 2012, Issue 2,
2012,
Pages 17-19,
ISSN 1361-3723,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-3723(12)70021-0.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361372312700210)
Abstract: Recent high-profile security breaches within public organisations have highlighted the need to create effective preventive measures against security threats. Schools, hospitals and government organisations are frequent targets for data theft. The NHS data breaches, as well as the recent data theft cases in UK schools, clearly demonstrate that minor incidents such as losing a work laptop or failing to protect an office password could cost organisations millions of pounds in lost data as well as in long-term damage to their reputations.

Hans Weigand, Philip Elsas,
Model-based auditing using REA,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 13, Issue 3,
2012,
Pages 287-310,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2012.06.013.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089512000449)
Abstract: The recent financial crisis has renewed interest in the value of the owner-ordered auditing tradition that starts from society's long-term interest rather than management interest. This tradition uses a model-based auditing approach in which control requirements are derived in a principled way. A problem with this approach is that it has been proven hard to apply it in modern complex organizations. Making it feasible requires at least an adequate enterprise modeling approach. In this paper, it is shown that the REA ontology fulfills most of the requirements for such a model-based approach. The analysis also suggests some directions in which REA can be extended.
Keywords: Owner-ordered auditing; Internal control; REA

Filip Caron, Jan Vanthienen, Bart Baesens,
Comprehensive rule-based compliance checking and risk management with process mining,
Decision Support Systems,
Volume 54, Issue 3,
2013,
Pages 1357-1369,
ISSN 0167-9236,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dss.2012.12.012.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167923612003788)
Abstract: Process mining researchers have primarily focused on developing and improving process discovery techniques, while attention for the applicability of process mining has been below par. As a result, there only exists a partial fit with the traditional requirements for compliance checking and risk management. This paper proposes a comprehensive rule-based process mining approach for a timely investigation of a complete set of enriched process event data. Additionally, the contribution elaborates a two-dimensional business rule taxonomy that serves as a source of business rules for the comprehensive rule-based compliance checking approach. Finally, the study provides a formal grounding for and an evaluation of the comprehensive rule-based compliance checking approach.
Keywords: Business rules; Compliance checking; Risk management; Process mining; Process-aware information systems

Andreas Hadjigeorgiou, Elpidoforos S. Soteriades, Achilleas Gikas, Anastasios Philalithis, Anna Psaroulaki, Yiannis Tselentis,
Establishment of a National Food Safety Authority for Cyprus: A comparative proposal based on the European paradigm,
Food Control,
Volume 30, Issue 2,
2013,
Pages 727-736,
ISSN 0956-7135,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodcont.2012.07.032.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0956713512004288)
Abstract: This paper examines the current National Food Safety System (NFSS) of Cyprus in contrast to NFSS of European Union (EU) countries and the EU central level. The main organizational structure of Cyprus, its legal framework, the competent authorities and division of their responsibilities are discussed. Particularly, we examine the roles and responsibilities of different agencies in order to identify possible similarities and differences with NFSS operating in Europe and determine which features are considered most successful. Cyprus is one of the EU countries that have not yet implemented institutional or organizational changes to establish a single National Food Safety Authority (NFSA) or a similar organization on the national level. The existing food safety system of Cyprus is characterized by an “off-hand” addition of structures and division of responsibilities among different government agencies, that are accountable to different Ministries. Therefore, the efforts to effectively manage the existing and emerging food safety risks are impeded due to duplication and overlapping of responsibilities among different agencies. The overall goal of our study was to develop a comprehensive proposal for the establishment of a single and independent NFSA in Cyprus based on EU experiences and good practices in an effort to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the current system.
Keywords: Cyprus; Food safety systems; Food control; Food legislation; Reorganization; Single authority; Independent authority

Ole-Kristian Hope, John Christian Langli, Wayne B. Thomas,
Agency conflicts and auditing in private firms,
Accounting, Organizations and Society,
Volume 37, Issue 7,
2012,
Pages 500-517,
ISSN 0361-3682,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aos.2012.06.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0361368212000645)
Abstract: We are interested in understanding how agency conflicts in private firms arise through ownership structures and family relationships. Specifically, we analyze auditors’ increase of effort and firms’ choice of auditors in situations with higher level of agency conflicts. For a large sample of private firms, we use unique and confidential data (obtained through special permission by the government) to measure direct and ultimate ownership for each shareholder as well as extended family relationships (based on marriage and blood lines, going back four generations and extending out to fourth cousin) among all shareholders, board members, and CEOs. We first find that audit fees, our proxy for audit effort, vary as hypothesized with firm-level characteristics related to ownership structures and family relationships. Second, we find evidence that firms in higher agency cost settings respond by having their financial statements audited by a higher-quality auditor (i.e., a Big 4 firm). However, for CEO family-related settings (i.e., where the CEO is related to the major shareholder or as the number of board members related to the CEO increases), we find no evidence of a greater demand for a Big 4 auditor.

Huy Tran, Uwe Zdun, Ta’id Holmes, Ernst Oberortner, Emmanuel Mulo, Schahram Dustdar,
Compliance in service-oriented architectures: A model-driven and view-based approach,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 54, Issue 6,
2012,
Pages 531-552,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2012.01.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584912000043)
Abstract: Context
Ensuring software systems conforming to multiple sources of relevant policies, laws, and regulations is significant because the consequences of infringement can be serious. Unfortunately, this goal is hardly achievable due to the divergence and frequent changes of compliance sources and the differences in perception and expertise of the involved stakeholders. In the long run, these issues lead to problems regarding complexity, understandability, maintainability, and reusability of compliance concerns.
Objective
In this article, we present a model-driven and view-based approach for addressing problems related to compliance concerns.
Method
Compliance concerns are represented using separate view models. This is achieved using domain-specific languages (DSLs) that enable non-technical and technical experts to formulate only the excerpts of the system according to their expertise and domain knowledge. The compliance implementations, reports, and documentation can be automatically generated from the models. The applicability of our approach has been validated using an industrial case study.
Results
Our approach supports stakeholders in dealing with the divergence of multiple compliance sources. The compliance controls and relevant reports and documentation are generated from the models and hence become traceable, understandable, and reusable. Because the generated artifacts are associated with the models, the compliance information won’t be lost as the system evolves. DSLs and view models convey compliance concerns to each stakeholder in a view that is most appropriate for his/her current work task.
Conclusions
Our approach lays a solid foundation for ensuring conformance to relevant laws and regulations. This approach, on the one hand, aims at addressing the variety of expertise and domain knowledge of stakeholders. On the other hand, it also aims at ensuring the explicit links between compliance sources and the corresponding implementations, reports, and documents for conducting many important tasks such as root cause analysis, auditing, and governance.
Keywords: Compliance; Model-driven; View-based; Service-oriented architectures; Process-driven SOAs; Domain-specific languages

David Heise, Stefan Strecker, Ulrich Frank,
ControlML: A domain-specific modeling language in support of assessing internal controls and the internal control system,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 15, Issue 3,
2014,
Pages 224-245,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2013.09.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089513000377)
Abstract: In this paper, we refine and extend an earlier language design to introduce a domain-specific modeling language (DSML) for internal control modeling as an extension to an enterprise modeling method. The language is aimed at supporting the assessment of a firm's internal control system through the use of conceptual models of internal controls. In the paper, we report on the design of the modeling language, on its integration with the enterprise modeling method, present the language specification, and discuss language applications in the context of the assessment of an internal control system.
Keywords: Internal control; Internal control system; Assessment of internal controls; Conceptual modeling; Enterprise modeling; Language design; Domain-specific modeling language; Design science research

Janine L. Spears, Henri Barki, Russell R. Barton,
Theorizing the concept and role of assurance in information systems security,
Information & Management,
Volume 50, Issue 7,
2013,
Pages 598-605,
ISSN 0378-7206,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.im.2013.08.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S037872061300089X)
Abstract: Assurance has different meanings, depending on the source, audience, and interpretation. We applied institutional theory and the Capability Maturity Model to conceptualize assurance: its symbolic aspects to gain social acceptance, and its substantive aspects to improve organizational capability and effectiveness in performing IS security risk management (SRM). An empirical study examined assurance-seeking behavior and outcomes for regulatory compliance. Some degree of process maturity in SRM was found necessary for producing convincing verbal accounts and compliance evidence. Findings suggest that unless an organization's assurance claims are based on achieving Level 4 maturity, assurance will be based more on symbolism than effectiveness.
Keywords: Assurance; Information systems security; Institutional theory; Process maturity; Regulatory compliance; Organizational legitimacy

Jérémy Morales, Caroline Lambert,
Dirty work and the construction of identity. An ethnographic study of management accounting practices,
Accounting, Organizations and Society,
Volume 38, Issue 3,
2013,
Pages 228-244,
ISSN 0361-3682,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aos.2013.04.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0361368213000299)
Abstract: This paper examines the processes by which identity work influences accounting and organisational practices. Analysing ethnographic material, we study how accountants engage in a struggle for recognition in a context where tensions emerge from the confrontation between idealised occupational aspirations and situated possibilities. To theorise this struggle we draw on Everett Hughes’s conceptualisation of a moral division of labour. Building on his concept of “dirty work”, we differentiate between the “unclean” and the “polluted”. Accountants have to perform tasks that are incompatible with the aspirational identities they claim; more than “boring”, these tasks become symbols of misrecognition. We call these unclean tasks. Yet even tasks that, in a more favourable context, would be associated with prestigious aspects of the job, can become degrading in specific situations. We call them polluted work. We highlight how trying to comply with a positively-anticipated role transition can help avoid unclean work yet generate more polluted work. Our analysis suggests that paying greater attention to symbolic differentiations between prestigious and shameful aspects of work can improve our understanding of accounting, identity work and organisational practices.

Jennifer Bayuk, Barry Horowitz, Rick Jones,
Security Via Related Disciplines,
Procedia Computer Science,
Volume 8,
2012,
Pages 338-344,
ISSN 1877-0509,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2012.01.070.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050912000713)
Abstract: The Systems Engineering Research Center (SERC) System Security Engineering Research Roadmap recommends that systems security research proceed in part by studying systems engineering methods, processes, and tools (MPTs) that are well established in disciplines that are related to security or have similar goals or objectives. Successful MPTs in these areas should be examined for possible application to systems security. If the MPTs in the toolset of nearby disciplines seem to be applicable to system security, this could provide a quick and easy method of expanding the toolset of metrics currently available to SSE. This study follows the recommendation with a critical examination of methods for diversity in reactor protection systems where the goal is safety. It adapts the reactor-specific method for achieving diversity for the purposes of safety into a method for systems security engineering that may be applied generally to any system.
Keywords: Type your keywords here; separated by semicolons ;

Michael Power,
The apparatus of fraud risk,
Accounting, Organizations and Society,
Volume 38, Issues 6–7,
2013,
Pages 525-543,
ISSN 0361-3682,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aos.2012.07.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0361368212000803)
Abstract: ‘Fraud risk’ is ontologically different from fraud. Fraud itself is a disruptive event; fraud risk can and must be governed. This essay draws on Foucault’s concept of an apparatus (dispositif) to explain the emergence of this difference. The analysis begins with a concrete case and explicates the history of fraud risk which flows through a specific organizational setting. First, it is claimed that fraud risk must be understood in relation to the broader historicity of risk in which risk expands its reach as an organizing practice category. Second, it is argued that the diverse elements of the fraud risk apparatus – words, laws, best practice guides, risk maps, websites, compliance officers, text books, regulatory judgments and many more – have a trajectory of formation. This trajectory begins with auditing and expands into risk management, regulation and security more generally. Fraud risk management emerges as a highly articulated, transnational web of ideas and procedures which frame the future within present organizational actions, and which intensify the responsibility of senior managers. Overall, the paper challenges the common sense idea that the present shape of fraud risk management is a functional necessity demanded by fraud events. The purpose is to display the historically contingent regime of truth for speaking about fraud, risk and responsibility in organizations. The paper suggests that this ‘regime of truth’ consists in a form of managerial and regulatory knowledge with a ‘grammar’ governing rules for talking about and acting on risky subjects and organizations. The rise of ‘fraud risk’ management and its prominent position within the field of corporate governance in the 21st century is emblematic of an ongoing neoliberal project of individualization and responsibilization.

Antonios Gouglidis, Ioannis Mavridis,
domRBAC: An access control model for modern collaborative systems,
Computers & Security,
Volume 31, Issue 4,
2012,
Pages 540-556,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2012.01.010.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404812000144)
Abstract: Modern collaborative systems such as the Grid computing paradigm are capable of providing resource sharing between users and platforms. These collaborations need to be done in a transparent way among the participants of a virtual organization (VO). A VO may consist of hundreds of users and heterogeneous resources. In order to have a successful collaboration, a list of vital importance requirements should be fulfilled, viz. collaboration among domains, to ensure a secure environment during a collaboration, the ability to enforce usage constraints upon resources, and to manage the security policies in an easy and efficient way. In this article, we propose an enhanced role-based access control model entitled domRBAC for collaborative applications, which is based on the ANSI INCITS 359-2004 access control model. The domRBAC is capable of differentiating the security policies that need to be enforced in each domain and to support collaboration under secure inter-operation. Cardinality constraints along with context information are incorporated to provide the ability of applying simple usage management of resources for the first time in a role-based access control model. Furthermore, secure inter-operation is assured among collaborating domains during role assignment automatically and in real-time. Yet, domRBAC, as an RBAC approach, intrinsically inherits all of its virtues such as ease of management, and separation of duty relationships with the latter also being supported in multiple domains. As a proof of concept, we implement a simulator based on the definitions of our proposed access control model and conduct experimental studies to demonstrate the feasibility and performance of our approach.
Keywords: Access control; Cross-domain authorization; Grid computing; RBAC; Resource usage management; Secure inter-operation

Su Zhang, Li Niu, Jing Chen,
The Comparative Analysis of Main Access Control Technologies,
Physics Procedia,
Volume 33,
2012,
Pages 1208-1211,
ISSN 1875-3892,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.phpro.2012.05.200.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1875389212015131)
Abstract: Effective access control security design is an important precondition for the stable running of an information system. So it's necessary to establish a well-designed security mechanism to ensure the security of the system. This paper analysis and compares the main access control theories.
Keywords: Access Control; Role-based Access Control; NIST RBAC proposed standard; Mandatory Access Control; Discretionary Access Control

André van Cleeff, Wolter Pieters, Roel Wieringa, Frits van Tiel,
Integrated assessment and mitigation of physical and digital security threats: Case studies on virtualization,
Information Security Technical Report,
Volume 16, Issues 3–4,
2011,
Pages 142-149,
ISSN 1363-4127,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.istr.2011.08.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1363412711000483)
Abstract: Virtualization is one of the enabling technologies of cloud computing. It turns once dedicated physical computing resources such as servers into digital resources that can be provisioned on demand. Cloud computing thus tends to replace physical with digital security controls, and cloud security must be understood in this context. In spite of extensive research on new hardware-enabled solutions such as trusted platforms, not enough is known about the actual physical-digital security trade-off in practice. In this paper, we review what is currently known about security aspects of the physical-digital trade-off, and then report on three case studies of private clouds that use virtualization technology, with the purpose of identifying generalizable guidelines for security trade-off analysis. We identify the important security properties of physical and digital resources, analyze how these have been traded off against each other in these cases, and what the resulting security properties were, and we identify limits to virtualization from a security point of view. The case studies show that physical security mechanisms all work through inertness and visibility of physical objects, whereas digital security mechanisms require monitoring and auditing. We conclude with a set of guidelines for trading off physical and digital security risks and mitigations. Finally, we show how our findings can be used to combine physical and digital security in new ways to improve virtualization and therefore also cloud security.

Bilal Shebaro, Jedidiah R. Crandall,
Privacy-preserving network flow recording,
Digital Investigation,
Volume 8, Supplement,
2011,
Pages S90-S100,
ISSN 1742-2876,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.diin.2011.05.011.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1742287611000351)
Abstract: Network flow recording is an important tool with applications that range from legal compliance and security auditing to network forensics, troubleshooting, and marketing. Unfortunately, current network flow recording technologies do not allow network operators to enforce a privacy policy on the data that is recorded, in particular how this data is stored and used within the organization. Challenges to building such a technology include the public key infrastructure, scalability, and gathering statistics about the data while still preserving privacy. We present a network flow recording technology that addresses these challenges by using Identity Based Encryption in combination with privacy-preserving semantics for on-the-fly statistics. We argue that our implementation supports a wide range of policies that cover many current applications of network flow recording. We also characterize the performance and scalability of our implementation and find that the encryption and statistics scale well and can easily keep up with the rate at which commodity systems can capture traffic, with a couple of interesting caveats about the size of the subnet that data is being recorded for and how statistics generation is affected by implementation details. We conclude that privacy-preserving network flow recording is possible at 10 gigabit rates for subnets as large as a /20 (4096 hosts). Because network flow recording is one of the most serious threats to web privacy today, we believe that developing technology to enforce a privacy policy on the recorded data is an important first step before policy makers can make decisions about how network operators can and should store and use network flow data. Our goal in this paper is to explore the tradeoffs of performance and scalability vs. privacy, and the usefulness of the recorded data in forensics vs. privacy.
Keywords: NetFlow; Network forensics; Identity based encryption; Privacy preserving semantics; Statistical database

Waleed W. Smari, Patrice Clemente, Jean-Francois Lalande,
An extended attribute based access control model with trust and privacy: Application to a collaborative crisis management system,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 31,
2014,
Pages 147-168,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2013.05.010.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X1300109X)
Abstract: Many efforts in the area of computer security have been drawn to attribute-based access control (ABAC). Compared to other adopted models, ABAC provides more granularity, scalability, and flexibility. This makes it a valuable access control system candidate for securing platforms and environments used for coordination and cooperation among organizations and communities, especially over open networks such as the Internet. On the other hand, the basic ABAC model lacks provisions for context, trust and privacy issues, all of which are becoming increasingly critical, particularly in high performance distributed collaboration environments. This paper presents an extended access control model based on attributes associated with objects and subjects. It incorporates trust and privacy issues in order to make access control decisions sensitive to the cross-organizational collaboration context. Several aspects of the proposed model are implemented and illustrated by a case study that shows realistic ABAC policies in the domain of distributed multiple organizations crisis management systems. Furthermore, the paper shows a collaborative graphical tool that enables the actors in the emergency management system to make better decisions. The prototype shows how it guarantees the privacy of object’s attributes, taking into account the trust of the subjects. This tool incorporates a decision engine that relies on attribute based policies and dynamic trust and privacy evaluation. The resulting platform demonstrates the integration of the ABAC model, the evolving context, and the attributes of actors and resources.
Keywords: Access control; ABAC; Trust; Privacy; Context; Distributed collaboration; Crisis management system

Alessandro Colantonio, Roberto Di Pietro, Nino Vincenzo Verde,
A business-driven decomposition methodology for role mining,
Computers & Security,
Volume 31, Issue 7,
2012,
Pages 844-855,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2012.01.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404812000090)
Abstract: It is generally accepted that role mining – that is, the discovery of roles through the automatic analysis of data from existing access control systems – must count on business requirements to increase its effectiveness. Indeed, roles elicited without leveraging on business information are unlikely to be intelligible by system administrators. A business-oriented categorization of users and permissions (e.g., organizational units, job titles, cost centers, business processes, etc.) could help administrators identify the job profiles of users and, as a consequence, which roles should be assigned to them. Nonetheless, most of the existing role mining techniques yield roles that have no clear relationship with the business structure of the organization where the role mining is being applied. To face this problem, we propose a methodology that allows role engineers to leverage business information during the role finding process. The key idea is decomposing the dataset to analyze into several partitions, in a way that each partition is homogeneous from a business perspective. Each partition groups users or permissions with the same business categorization (e.g., all the users belonging to the same department, or all the permissions that support the execution of the same business process). Such partitions are then role-mined independently, hence achieving three main results: (1) elicited roles have a clearer relationship with business information; (2) mining algorithms do not seek to find commonalities among users with fundamentally different job profiles or among uncorrelated permissions; and, (3) any role mining algorithm can be used in conjunction with our approach. When several business attributes are available, analysts need to figure out which one produces the decomposition that leads to the most intelligible roles. In this paper, we describe three indexes that drive the decomposition process by measuring the quality of a given decomposition: entrustability, minability gain, and similarity gain. We compare these indexes, pointing out pros and cons. Finally, we apply our methodology on real enterprise data, showing its effectiveness and efficiency in supporting role engineering.
Keywords: Role mining; Role engineering; RBAC; Data partitioning; Business relevance

Aditi Gupta, Michael S. Kirkpatrick, Elisa Bertino,
A formal proximity model for RBAC systems,
Computers & Security,
Volume 41,
2014,
Pages 52-67,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2013.08.012.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404813001296)
Abstract: To combat the threat of information leakage through pervasive access, researchers have proposed several extensions to the popular role-based access control (RBAC) model. Such extensions can incorporate contextual features, such as location, into the policy decision in an attempt to restrict access to trustworthy settings. In many cases, though, such extensions fail to reflect the true threat, which is the presence or absence of other users, rather than absolute locations. For instance, for location-aware separation of duty, it is more important to ensure that two people are in the same room, rather than in a designated, pre-defined location. Prox-RBAC was proposed as an extension to consider the relative proximity of other users with the help of a pervasive monitoring infrastructure. However, that work offered only an informal view of proximity, and unnecessarily restricted the domain to spatial concerns. In this work, we present a more rigorous definition of proximity based on formal topological relations. In addition, we show that this definition can be applied to several additional domains, such as social networks, communication channels, attributes, and time; thus, our policy model and language is more flexible and powerful than the previous work. In addition to proposing the model, we present a number of theoretical results for such systems, including a complexity analysis, templates for cryptographic protocols, and proofs of security features.
Keywords: Access control; Security; Mobility; Context awareness; Proximity

Youna Jung, James B.D. Joshi,
CPBAC: Property-based access control model for secure cooperation in online social networks,
Computers & Security,
Volume 41,
2014,
Pages 19-39,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2013.08.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404813001211)
Abstract: The rapid growth of online social networks (OSNs) has brought a revolutionary change in the way geographically dispersed people interact and cooperate with each other toward achieving some common goals. Recently, new ways of ad-hoc cooperation have been demonstrated during the hurricane Irene and the earthquake in Japan. In such emergency situations, OSNs have already taken a significant role as alternative social media that support altruistic information sharing and cooperation among people. However, existing cooperation approaches have not been well-organized and are highly vulnerable to security threats such as a disclosure of users' identities and the leakage of other private data because of the lack of secure cooperation mechanisms. To support secure and effective cooperation in OSNs, in this paper, we propose the CPBAC (Community-centric Property Based Access Control) model, which extends the existing CRiBAC (Community-centric Role interaction Based Access Control) model for use in OSNs to support cooperation among users. To verify the feasibility of the proposed model, we have implemented a prototype application on Facebook and have demonstrated its applicability with two working examples.
Keywords: Online social network; Community; Cooperation; Anonymous member; Temporal sharing; Property-based access control

D. Unal, M.U. Caglayan,
A formal role-based access control model for security policies in multi-domain mobile networks,
Computer Networks,
Volume 57, Issue 1,
2013,
Pages 330-350,
ISSN 1389-1286,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2012.09.018.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1389128612003490)
Abstract: Mobile users present challenges for security in multi-domain mobile networks. The actions of mobile users moving across security domains need to be specified and checked against domain and inter-domain policies. We propose a new formal security policy model for multi-domain mobile networks, called FPM-RBAC, Formal Policy Model for Mobility with Role Based Access Control. FPM-RBAC supports the specification of mobility and location constraints, role hierarchy mapping, inter-domain services, inter-domain access rights and separation of duty. Associated with FPM-RBAC, we also present a formal security policy constraint specification language for domain and inter-domain security policies. Formal policy constraint specifications are based on ambient logic and predicate logic. We also use ambient calculus to specify the current state of a mobile network and actions within security policies for evaluation of access requests according to security policies. A novel aspect of the proposed policy model is the support for formal and automated analysis of security policies related to mobility within multiple security domains.
Keywords: Mobile network; Multi-domain; Security policy; Access control; Model checking

Karsten Sohr, Mirco Kuhlmann, Martin Gogolla, Hongxin Hu, Gail-Joon Ahn,
Comprehensive two-level analysis of role-based delegation and revocation policies with UML and OCL,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 54, Issue 12,
2012,
Pages 1396-1417,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2012.06.008.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584912001115)
Abstract: Context
Role-based access control (RBAC) has become the de facto standard for access management in various large-scale organizations. Often role-based policies must implement organizational rules to satisfy compliance or authorization requirements, e.g., the principle of separation of duty (SoD). To provide business continuity, organizations should also support the delegation of access rights and roles, respectively. This, however, makes access control more complex and error-prone, in particular, when delegation concepts interplay with SoD rules.
Objective
A systematic way to specify and validate access control policies consisting of organizational rules such as SoD as well as delegation and revocation rules shall be developed. A domain-specific language for RBAC as well as delegation concepts shall be made available.
Method
In this paper, we present an approach to the precise specification and validation of role-based policies based on UML and OCL. We significantly extend our earlier work, which proposed a UML-based domain-specific language for RBAC, by supporting delegation and revocation concepts.
Result
We show the appropriateness of our approach by applying it to a banking application. In particular, we give three scenarios for validating the interplay between SoD rules and delegation/revocation.
Conclusion
To the best of our knowledge, this is the first attempt to formalize advanced RBAC concepts, such as history-based SoD as well as various delegation and revocation schemes, with UML and OCL. With the rich tool support of UML, we believe our work can be employed to validate and implement real-world role-based policies.
Keywords: UML; OCL; RBAC; Delegation; Revocation

Linda Leon, Lawrence Kalbers, Nancy Coster, Dolphy Abraham,
A spreadsheet life cycle analysis and the impact of Sarbanes–Oxley,
Decision Support Systems,
Volume 54, Issue 1,
2012,
Pages 452-460,
ISSN 0167-9236,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dss.2012.06.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167923612001893)
Abstract: Past studies show that only a small percent of organizations implement and enforce formal rules or informal guidelines for the planning, design and development, usage, modification, and disposition stages of spreadsheet models. Due to the lack of such policies, there has been little research on how companies can effectively govern spreadsheets throughout their life cycle. This paper describes a survey involving 43 participants from the United States, representing companies that were working on compliance with the Sarbanes–Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX) as it relates to spreadsheets for financial reporting. The findings of this survey describe specific controls that organizations have implemented to manage spreadsheets for financial reporting throughout a spreadsheet's life cycle. Our findings indicate that there are problems in all stages of a spreadsheet's life cycle and we suggest several important areas for practice and future research.
Keywords: Spreadsheet; Spreadsheet life cycle; Controls; Sarbanes–Oxley; IT governance

Gail Kaciuba,
An instructional assignment for student engagement in auditing class: Student movies and the AICPA Core Competency Framework,
Journal of Accounting Education,
Volume 30, Issue 2,
2012,
Pages 248-266,
ISSN 0748-5751,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaccedu.2012.08.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0748575112000474)
Abstract: Student engagement can improve any accounting class, including the auditing class. Auditing concepts are often abstract, difficult to learn, and even considered a bit boring for many undergraduate students. For the past six semesters student teams in my auditing classes have recorded short movies about auditing concepts and/or audit-related situations. The students have created humorous movies with various themes including Batman, Star Wars, Charlie’s Angels, families making moonshine, and Scooby-Doo. While the themes have varied, each of the movies has related to an auditing concept. As the students prepare the script, they learn the relevant auditing concepts well enough to rephrase them and write them into a situational comedy. Most importantly, this instructional assignment provides for student practice on many of the competencies found in the AICPA Core Competency Framework for Entry into the Accounting Profession (AICPA, 2005).
Keywords: AICPA Core Competency Framework for Entry into the Accounting Profession; Auditing concepts; Movies; Role-playing; Student engagement

Petraşcu Daniela, Tamaş Attila,
Internal Audit versus Internal Control and Coaching,
Procedia Economics and Finance,
Volume 6,
2013,
Pages 694-702,
ISSN 2212-5671,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S2212-5671(13)00191-3.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212567113001913)
Abstract: This article is not intended only as a brief parallel between internal audit and internal control but it aims to point their importance for any economic entity and moreover to point the benefits it may provide. Based on the assumption that internal audit does not mean control and the auditors are no adversaries to an entity, it is well known that internal audit is a management assistance tool, allowing the decision makers in an entity to better manage its activities; it assesses all management resolutions meant to ensure their normal and efficient operation, and not lastly it creates added value.
Keywords: internal audit; internal control; coaching.

Matteo Dell'Amico, Gabriel Serme, Muhammad Sabir Idrees, Anderson Santana de Oliveira, Yves Roudier,
HiPoLDS: A Hierarchical Security Policy Language for Distributed Systems,
Information Security Technical Report,
Volume 17, Issue 3,
2013,
Pages 81-92,
ISSN 1363-4127,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.istr.2012.10.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S136341271200043X)
Abstract: Expressing security policies to govern distributed systems is a complex and error-prone task. Policies are hard to understand, often expressed with unfriendly syntax, making it difficult for security administrators and for business analysts to create intelligible specifications. We introduce the Hierarchical Policy Language for Distributed Systems (HiPoLDS), which has been designed to enable the specification of security policies in distributed systems in a concise, readable, and extensible way. HiPoLDS design focuses on decentralized execution environments under the control of multiple stakeholders. It represents policy enforcement through the use of distributed reference monitors, which control the flow of information between services. HiPoLDS allows the definition of both abstract and concrete policies, expressing respectively high-level properties required and concrete implementation details to be ultimately introduced into the service implementation.
Keywords: Security policies; Service-oriented architectures; Distributed systems

Matthäus Tekathen, Niels Dechow,
Enterprise risk management and continuous re-alignment in the pursuit of accountability: A German case,
Management Accounting Research,
Volume 24, Issue 2,
2013,
Pages 100-121,
ISSN 1044-5005,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mar.2013.04.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1044500513000280)
Abstract: COSO defines ERM as a set of activities that lead to organizational alignment and accountability, given structured work with stable, mobile and combinable information objects. This study argues against this representation by offering three insights developed from case research. We observe ERM as a practice that oscillates between IT-based representations and social interpretations, which never “adds-up” but creates circulation and movement instead. Rather than to produce a common understanding of corporate affairs, ERM communalizes the process of identifying risks and chances and promotes a quest for accountability. Thus, ERM does not focus on improving performance or compliance. Nevertheless, by separating subjects and objects in the organizational context, ERM creates space for otherness and heterogeneity. To the extent that these are mobilized as resources, ERM might offer “intelligence” beyond the coherence and homogeneity, which accounting systems represent.
Keywords: COSO; Enterprise risk management; Alignment; Accountability

Mieke Jans, Michael Alles, Miklos Vasarhelyi,
The case for process mining in auditing: Sources of value added and areas of application,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 14, Issue 1,
2013,
Pages 1-20,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2012.06.015.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089512000462)
Abstract: Process mining aims to extract knowledge from the event logs maintained by a company's ERP system. The objective of this paper is to make the case for why internal and external auditors should leverage the capabilities process mining offers to rethink how auditing is carried out. We do so by identifying the sources of value added of process mining when applied to auditing, which are as follows: 1. process mining analyzes the entire population of data and not just a sample; 2. critically that data consists of meta-data—data entered independently of the actions of auditee—and not just data entered by the auditee; 3. process mining allows the auditor to have a more effective way of implementing the audit risk model by providing effective ways of conducting the required walkthroughs of processes and conducting analytic procedures; 4. process mining allows the auditor to conduct analyses not possible with existing audit tools, such as discovering the ways in which business processes are actually being carried out in practice, and to identify social relationships between individuals. It is our argument that these sources of value have not been fully understood in the process mining literature, which has focused on developing it as a statistical methodology rather than on applying it to audit practice. Only when auditors and audit researchers appreciate what is new and unique about process mining will its acceptance in auditing practice become feasible.
Keywords: Event logs; Process mining; Internal auditing; Continuous auditing

Vicky Arnold, Jean C. Bedard, Jillian R. Phillips, Steve G. Sutton,
Do section 404 disclosures affect investors' perceptions of information systems reliability and stock price predictions?,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 12, Issue 4,
2011,
Pages 243-258,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2011.05.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089511000352)
Abstract: This paper examines the impact of Sarbanes–Oxley Act (2002) Section 404 disclosures regarding internal controls over financial reporting on investors' information systems (IS) reliability assessments and stock price predictions. Prior research shows that Section 404 disclosures signal differences in the quality of company financial information. However, research on how Section 404 disclosures impact financial markets shows mixed results. In order for Section 404 information to affect stock prices, users must access that information, assess its implications, and incorporate those implications into their decision processes. We investigate the stages of this process through an experiment using a 10-K filing adapted from an actual company, utilizing process-tracing software to record information access. Two versions of the case were used to manipulate the type of Section 404 opinion, noting effective or ineffective control systems. Results show that professional investors are more likely to access Section 404 information than nonprofessionals. Also, our findings imply that professional investors have a lower baseline expectation of reliability that increases on learning of effective controls, while nonprofessionals have a higher baseline expectation of reliability that declines on learning of ineffective controls. While IS reliability is positively associated with nonprofessionals' stock price predictions, there is no such association for professionals. These findings help explain the mixed results in past archival studies. Prior results on market response to Section 404 information may be due in part to failure to access Section 404 reports, and to the low weighting placed on IS reliability by financial professionals.
Keywords: Investor judgment; Internal control; General system controls; Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404; Information systems reliability; Risk propensity

Sophie Tessier, David Otley,
A conceptual development of Simons’ Levers of Control framework,
Management Accounting Research,
Volume 23, Issue 3,
2012,
Pages 171-185,
ISSN 1044-5005,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mar.2012.04.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1044500512000182)
Abstract: The management control literature has been criticised for having concepts that are ill-defined. This causes mixed empirical results and makes it difficult to build a coherent body of knowledge. The paper addresses this issue by developing an important framework, that of Simons’ Levers of Control, which has been criticised in the past for its vague and ambiguous definitions. Using methods of concept analysis, the paper analyses prior literature to identify ambiguities with the different levers of control and uses examples from prior field studies to illustrate these ambiguities. The paper also analyses the positive and negative dimensions of controls, which, although part of Simons’ framework, have remained unexplored. For each ambiguity identified, the paper proposes a solution to improve concept definitions or to clarify the relationship between concepts. The result is a revised framework that explicitly separates managerial intentions for controls and employee perceptions of controls. Managerial intentions are comprised of three levels: 1) types of controls (social and technical) 2) which are organised as four control systems (strategic performance, operational performance, strategic boundaries and operational boundaries) and 3) which can be used diagnostically or interactively, have an enabling or constraining role and can lead to either reward or punishment. Finally, after defining the framework's concepts and explaining how they interact, the paper concludes by offering avenues for future research.
Keywords: Framework; Management control systems; Levers of control; Management control literature

David R. Fordham,
Applying a real-world fraud to multiple learning objectives: Considerations and an example from the systems course,
Journal of Accounting Education,
Volume 30, Issues 3–4,
2012,
Pages 325-354,
ISSN 0748-5751,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaccedu.2012.09.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0748575112000747)
Abstract: Well-designed and delivered teaching cases are of significant educational value. Additionally, a real-world situation described as an entertaining story holds student interest and increases attention. But turning such a story into an effective instructional case can be a daunting task for many instructors. This paper reports on an actual real-world fraud involving theft of almost half a million dollars from a familiar type of small business. The details of the situation provide a rich supply of content adaptable to not one, but numerous, major topics found in many accounting courses in systems, internal control, and even perhaps auditing. This supply of “raw material” can be utilized by instructors to create numerous educational cases tailored to the individual needs of their students and courses. The extensive literature on educational case usage contains sources providing suggestions to assist instructors in effective case development. Examples are also provided of how one instructor applied the fraud’s “story” to several learning objectives in an undergraduate AIS course to create a set of instructional cases, providing significant economies of scale for both instructor and student.
Keywords: Teaching case; Instructional case; Occupational fraud; Small business; Internal controls; Flowcharting; Multiple learning objectives; Peer learning; Case-based education; Case-based pedagogy

Nicholas A. Pullen, Brian O. Barnstein, Yves T. Falanga, Zhengqi Wang, Ryo Suzuki, Tenchee D. Lama Tamang, Michele C. Khurana, Emily A. Harry, Petr Draber, Kevin D. Bunting, Kazuya Mizuno, Bridget S. Wilson, John J. Ryan,
Novel Mechanism for FcϵRI-mediated Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 5 (STAT5) Tyrosine Phosphorylation and the Selective Influence of STAT5B over Mast Cell Cytokine Production*,
Journal of Biological Chemistry,
Volume 287, Issue 3,
2012,
Pages 2045-2054,
ISSN 0021-9258,
https://doi.org/10.1074/jbc.M111.311142.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0021925820532985)
Abstract: Previous studies indicate that STAT5 expression is required for mast cell development, survival, and IgE-mediated function. STAT5 tyrosine phosphorylation is swiftly and transiently induced by activation of the high affinity IgE receptor, FcϵRI. However, the mechanism for this mode of activation remains unknown. In this study we observed that STAT5 co-localizes with FcϵRI in antigen-stimulated mast cells. This localization was supported by cholesterol depletion of membranes, which ablated STAT5 tyrosine phosphorylation. Through the use of various pharmacological inhibitors and murine knock-out models, we found that IgE-mediated STAT5 activation is dependent upon Fyn kinase, independent of Syk, PI3K, Akt, Bruton's tyrosine kinase, and JAK2, and enhanced in the context of Lyn kinase deficiency. STAT5 immunoprecipitation revealed that unphosphorylated protein preassociates with Fyn and that this association diminishes significantly during mast cell activation. SHP-1 tyrosine phosphatase deficiency modestly enhanced STAT5 phosphorylation. This effect was more apparent in the absence of Gab2, a scaffolding protein that docks with multiple negative regulators, including SHP-1, SHP-2, and Lyn. Targeting of STAT5A or B with specific siRNA pools revealed that IgE-mediated mast cell cytokine production is selectively dependent upon the STAT5B isoform. Altogether, these data implicate Fyn as the major positive mediator of STAT5 after FcϵRI engagement and demonstrate importantly distinct roles for STAT5A and STAT5B in mast cell function.
Keywords: Cytokine Induction; Immunology; Mast Cell; Src; STAT Transcription Factor; Fyn Kinase; IgE; STAT5

Lixin (Nancy) Su, Xuezhou (Rachel) Zhao, Gaoguang (Stephen) Zhou,
Do customers respond to the disclosure of internal control weakness?,
Journal of Business Research,
Volume 67, Issue 7,
2014,
Pages 1508-1518,
ISSN 0148-2963,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2013.06.009.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0148296313002646)
Abstract: In this study, we investigate the effects of firms' internal control weakness (ICW) disclosures on their customers. We hypothesize that ICW disclosure adversely affects customers' perceptions of firms' ability and incentive to honor implicit commitments to customers, and as such, customers are less willing to buy from such firms. We thus expect a decline in firms' sales growth after ICW disclosure. We find a significant decline in sales growth subsequent to Sarbanes–Oxley (SOX) Section 404 ICW disclosure after controlling for firms' past sales growth and other factors affecting sales performance and internal control. This result is robust to the consideration of selection bias in ICW disclosure. We also find that the decline is more pronounced for firms with company-level ICW disclosure, with industrial customers, in the durable goods industries, with high research and development (R&D) intensity, or without subsequent remediation of ICW. Taken together, these results are consistent with the argument that ICW concerns customers more when the implicit contracts between the firms and their customers are more intensive.
Keywords: Internal control weakness; SOX Section 404; Implicit contract; Sales growth

Hari Bansha Dulal, Kalim U. Shah, Chandan Sapkota, Gengaiah Uma, Bibek R. Kandel,
Renewable energy diffusion in Asia: Can it happen without government support?,
Energy Policy,
Volume 59,
2013,
Pages 301-311,
ISSN 0301-4215,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enpol.2013.03.040.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0301421513002188)
Abstract: The dramatically increasing population of Asia necessitates equally as dramatic increase in energy supply to meet demand. Rapidly increasing energy demand is a major concern for Asian countries because the increase in demand is being met through the increased use of fossil fuel supply, largely domestic coal and imported fuel. Renewable energy supply presents a lower emission pathway that could be a viable option for steering off the higher emissions path. However, several market, economic, institutional, technical, and socio-cultural barriers hinder countries in moving from high to low emission pathway. Following a discussion on the rising demand for energy in Asia and the prospects of partly satisfying it with renewable energy, we outline the reasons for government support to tackle the barriers for widespread diffusion of grid-based renewable energy. Additionally, we also discuss workable models for strategic government intervention to support diffusion of grid-based renewable energy in Asia.
Keywords: Climate change; Renewable energy; Asia

Nan Feng, Harry Jiannan Wang, Minqiang Li,
A security risk analysis model for information systems: Causal relationships of risk factors and vulnerability propagation analysis,
Information Sciences,
Volume 256,
2014,
Pages 57-73,
ISSN 0020-0255,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2013.02.036.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025513001539)
Abstract: With the increasing organizational dependence on information systems, information systems security has become a very critical issue in enterprise risk management. In information systems, security risks are caused by various interrelated internal and external factors. A security vulnerability could also propagate and escalate through the causal chains of risk factors via multiple paths, leading to different system security risks. In order to identify the causal relationships among risk factors and analyze the complexity and uncertainty of vulnerability propagation, a security risk analysis model (SRAM) is proposed in this paper. In SRAM, a Bayesian network (BN) is developed to simultaneously define the risk factors and their causal relationships based on the knowledge from observed cases and domain experts. Then, the security vulnerability propagation analysis is performed to determine the propagation paths with the highest probability and the largest estimated risk value. SRAM enables organizations to establish proactive security risk management plans for information systems, which is validated via a case study.
Keywords: Information systems; Security risk; Bayesian networks; Ant colony optimization; Vulnerability propagation

Giovanni Toffetti, Mauro Pezzè,
Graph transformations and software engineering: Success stories and lost chances,
Journal of Visual Languages & Computing,
Volume 24, Issue 3,
2013,
Pages 207-217,
ISSN 1045-926X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvlc.2012.10.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1045926X12000614)
Abstract: Textual as well as visual and diagrammatic notations are essential in software engineering, and are used in many different contexts. Chomsky grammars are the key tool to handle textual notations, and find many applications for textual languages. Visual and diagrammatic languages add spatial dimensions that reduce the applicability of textual grammars and call for new tools. Graph transformation systems have been studied for over 40 years and are a powerful tool to deal with syntax, semantics and transformation of diagrammatic notations. The enormous importance of visual and diagrammatic languages and the strong support that graph transformation provide to the manipulation of diagrammatic notations would suggest a big success of graph transformation in software engineering. Graph transformation systems find their application both as language generating devices and specification means for system evolution, and thus can have many applications in software engineering. In this paper we discuss the main features of graph transformation and how they can help software engineers. We look back to the many attempts to use graph transformations in software engineering in the last 15 years, identify some success stories, and discuss to what extent graph transformation succeeded, when they have not succeeded yet, what are the main causes of failures, and how they can help software engineering in the next 15 years.
Keywords: Graph transformation; Software engineering; Model; Model transformation; Visual language; Dynamic system; Evolving system

Laurence E. Johnson, Suzanne Lowensohn, Jacqueline L. Reck, Stephen P. Davies,
Management letter comments: Their determinants and their association with financial reporting quality in local government,
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy,
Volume 31, Issue 6,
2012,
Pages 575-592,
ISSN 0278-4254,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaccpubpol.2012.09.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0278425412000713)
Abstract: The issuance of management letters (MLs) as part of financial statement audits is a long-standing practice; however, previous studies of MLs are few and no previous research has tested the utility of MLs empirically. This paper reports a study of MLs issued by independent CPA firms pursuant to audits of Florida general purpose local governments. We investigate the determinants of ML comments, finding that such comments are influenced by auditee characteristics and auditor tenure but not by auditor specialization, a proxy for audit quality. Further, we explore the relationship between MLs and financial reporting quality. We observe a negative relationship between first-year ML comments and assessed financial reporting quality. When lagged one year, first-year ML comments bear a positive relationship with financial reporting quality. The absence of ML comments is positively associated with financial reporting quality. Our results suggest that MLs are beneficial to auditees. As such, our study should be interesting to policymakers, users of financial reports, auditees, and auditors.

Daniel Maxwell, Helen Young, Susanne Jaspars, Jacqueline Frize, John Burns,
Targeting and distribution in complex emergencies: Participatory management of humanitarian food assistance,
Food Policy,
Volume 36, Issue 4,
2011,
Pages 535-543,
ISSN 0306-9192,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodpol.2011.03.010.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306919211000492)
Abstract: The extensive literature on community participation in the targeting and management of humanitarian food assistance suggests that participatory approaches work best in slow-onset emergencies with no conflict or displacement. Yet the policies of many agencies—and compliance with Sphere minimum standards—require that the recipient community participate in decisions about the assistance they receive including targeting, regardless of the causes of the emergency. This paper analyzes current practice in the targeting and management of humanitarian food assistance in complex emergencies, the constraints to recipient communities’ participation, and the possibilities for participatory approaches to improve targeting. Access and security considerations, limited staff time and capacity, and other constraints have long meant that the actual oversight of food aid distributions in complex emergencies is left in the hands of local leaders at the village or camp level. Introduced institutions include Food Relief Committees, or other specially-organized bodies to deal with targeting and distribution questions. Differences in the accountability and legitimacy of these leaders and committees, together with post-distribution dynamics over which agencies have little control, account for much of the way in food assistance is actually distributed and utilized. But much of the process of food aid targeting remains opaque to recipients, who are often not aware of their entitlements or the process of determining who is entitled. The paper concludes with a number of practical suggestions to improve participation in targeting in complex emergencies.
Keywords: Food aid; Complex emergencies; Community-based targeting; Participation; Relief committees; Governance

Ram D Gopal, Raymond A Patterson, Erik Rolland, Dmitry Zhdanov,
Social network meets Sherlock Holmes: investigating the missing links of fraud,
Computer Fraud & Security,
Volume 2012, Issue 7,
2012,
Pages 12-18,
ISSN 1361-3723,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-3723(12)70074-X.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S136137231270074X)
Abstract: Social networks are changing the nature of all human interactions, including those associated with fraudulent behaviour. The extensive use of social networks requires sophisticated analytical tools for fraud investigation. To this end, we have identified a mathematical formulation that represents the fraud investigation process: the Steiner Tree problem. Occupational fraud is a worldwide phenomenon that is both costly and hard to fight. However, social network analysis has the potential to be an invaluable part of the arsenal in detecting fraud. Using a network analysis technique based on a Steiner Tree problem, Ram D Gopal, Raymond A Patterson, Erik Rolland and Dmitry Zhdanov describe a graph-theoretic formulation of the problem and how it can be applied to investigation work on fraud cases.

Brendan Van Alsenoy,
Allocating responsibility among controllers, processors, and “everything in between”: the definition of actors and roles in Directive 95/46/EC,
Computer Law & Security Review,
Volume 28, Issue 1,
2012,
Pages 25-43,
ISSN 0267-3649,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clsr.2011.11.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0267364911001828)
Abstract: In Opinion 1/2010, the Article 29 Data Protection Working Party has provided additional guidance concerning the concepts of ‘controller’ and ‘processor’ contained in Directive 95/46/EC. This guidance aims to assist practitioners in their determination of whether an entity is acting as a controller or as a processor towards a particular data processing operation. Despite the fact that this opinion is informative, the existing framework still appears to leave room for a considerable amount of legal uncertainty. This uncertainty is attributable in part to the nature of the existing concepts, but also (and perhaps to a larger extent) to their apparent misalignment with current processing realities. In this paper, the author seeks to articulate why the existing concepts often remain difficult to apply in practice, in order to enable a constructive reflection on how these issues might be addressed in the future.
Keywords: Directive 95/46/EC; Data Protection; Article 29 Working Party; Compliance; Actors and roles; Controllers and processors; Accountability

Farzad Salim, Jason Reid, Uwe Dulleck, Ed Dawson,
Budget-aware Role Based Access Control,
Computers & Security,
Volume 35,
2013,
Pages 37-50,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2012.11.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016740481200171X)
Abstract: The suitability of Role Based Access Control (RBAC) is being challenged in dynamic environments like healthcare. In an RBAC system, a user's legitimate access may be denied if their need has not been anticipated by the security administrator at the time of policy specification. Alternatively, even when the policy is correctly specified an authorised user may accidentally or intentionally misuse the granted permission. The heart of the challenge is the intrinsic unpredictability of users' operational needs as well as their incentives to misuse permissions. In this paper we propose a novel Budget-aware Role Based Access Control (B-RBAC) model that extends RBAC with the explicit notion of budget and cost, where users are assigned a limited budget through which they pay for the cost of permissions they need. We propose a model where the value of resources are explicitly defined and an RBAC policy is used as a reference point to discriminate the price of access permissions, as opposed to representing hard and fast rules for making access decisions. This approach has several desirable properties. It enables users to acquire unassigned permissions if they deem them necessary. However, users misuse capability is always bounded by their allocated budget and is further adjustable through the discrimination of permission prices. Finally, it provides a uniform mechanism for the detection and prevention of misuses.
Keywords: Insider problem; Role Based Access Control; Misaligned incentives; Price discrimination; Economics of Information security

Yu Li, Yong Zhao, Siyuan Xin,
Research on Separation of Three Powers Architecture for Trusted OS,
Physics Procedia,
Volume 25,
2012,
Pages 1168-1175,
ISSN 1875-3892,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.phpro.2012.03.215.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1875389212006311)
Abstract: The privilege in the operating system (OS) often results in the break of confidentiality and integrity of the system. To solve this problem, several security mechanisms are proposed, such as Role-based Access Control, Separation of Duty. However, these mechanisms can not eliminate the privilege in OS kernel layer. This paper proposes a Separation of Three Powers Architecture (STPA). The authorizations in OS are divided into three parts: System Management Subsystem (SMS), Security Management Subsystem (SEMS) and Audit Subsystem (AS). Mutual support and mutual checks and balances which are the design principles of STPA eliminate the administrator in the kernel layer. Furthermore, the paper gives the formal description for authorization division using the graph theory. Finally, the implementation of STPA is given. Proved by experiments, the Separation of Three Powers Architecture we proposed can provide reliable protection for the OS through authorization division.
Keywords: Separation of Three Powers Architecture; Authorization Graph; Separation of Privilege; Trusted Operating System

Paul Ayers,
Securing and controlling data in the cloud,
Computer Fraud & Security,
Volume 2012, Issue 11,
2012,
Pages 16-20,
ISSN 1361-3723,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-3723(12)70115-X.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S136137231270115X)
Abstract: It is well known that businesses are embracing the compelling economic and operational benefits of cloud computing. By virtualising and pooling computing resources, businesses not only reduce operational costs but can also accelerate the deployment of new applications and services. While cloud computing does not change the fundamental principles of information security, taking advantage of cloud computing's benefits requires consideration of how the security of data can be maintained in the cloud model.

Jessica K. Witt, Mila Sugovic,
Spiders appear to move faster than non-threatening objects regardless of one's ability to block them,
Acta Psychologica,
Volume 143, Issue 3,
2013,
Pages 284-291,
ISSN 0001-6918,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actpsy.2013.04.011.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0001691813000917)
Abstract: We examined whether perception of a threatening object – a spider – was more accurate than of a non-threatening object. An accurate perception could promote better survival than a biased perception. However, if biases encourage faster responses and more appropriate behaviors, then under the right circumstances, perceptual biases could promote better survival. We found that spiders appeared to be moving faster than balls and ladybugs. Furthermore, the perceiver's ability to act on the object also influenced perceived speed: the object looked faster when it was more difficult to block. Both effects – the threat of the object and the perceiver's blocking abilities – acted independently from each other. The results suggest effects of multiple types of affordances on perception of speed.
Keywords: Visual perception; Action-specific perception; Speed perception; Spiders; Affordances

Josiah Dykstra, Alan T. Sherman,
Acquiring forensic evidence from infrastructure-as-a-service cloud computing: Exploring and evaluating tools, trust, and techniques,
Digital Investigation,
Volume 9, Supplement,
2012,
Pages S90-S98,
ISSN 1742-2876,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.diin.2012.05.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1742287612000266)
Abstract: We expose and explore technical and trust issues that arise in acquiring forensic evidence from infrastructure-as-a-service cloud computing and analyze some strategies for addressing these challenges. First, we create a model to show the layers of trust required in the cloud. Second, we present the overarching context for a cloud forensic exam and analyze choices available to an examiner. Third, we provide for the first time an evaluation of popular forensic acquisition tools including Guidance EnCase and AccesData Forensic Toolkit, and show that they can successfully return volatile and non-volatile data from the cloud. We explain, however, that with those techniques judge and jury must accept a great deal of trust in the authenticity and integrity of the data from many layers of the cloud model. In addition, we explore four other solutions for acquisition—Trusted Platform Modules, the management plane, forensics-as-a-service, and legal solutions, which assume less trust but require more cooperation from the cloud service provider. Our work lays a foundation for future development of new acquisition methods for the cloud that will be trustworthy and forensically sound. Our work also helps forensic examiners, law enforcement, and the court evaluate confidence in evidence from the cloud.
Keywords: Computer security; Cloud computing; Digital forensics; Cloud forensics; EnCase; FTK; Amazon EC2

James Worrell, Molly Wasko, Allen Johnston,
Social network analysis in accounting information systems research,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 14, Issue 2,
2013,
Pages 127-137,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2011.06.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089511000388)
Abstract: This paper introduces social network analysis as an alternative research method for conducting accounting information systems related research. With advances in information and communication technologies, transaction data are being recorded in electronic form, resulting in a variety of research opportunities to examine dyadic interactions. A network consists of a set of nodes connected by ties. Social network research focuses on how outcomes are influenced not just by the attributes of the nodes (e.g. individuals), but also by the ties connecting nodes to each other. The nodes are typically conceptualized as actors, such as individuals, teams, or organizations. A unique network structure is created to reflect each different type of tie, such as trust, advice, collocation, or organizational affiliation. Social network analysis can be used for research examining individual, dyadic or network levels of analyses, and is a powerful tool for conducting multi-method research. Given the vast amounts of trace electronic data collected via accounting information systems, this paper reviews how social network analysis not only opens new research avenues for accounting information systems researchers, but identifies opportunities for the field of accounting information systems to inform social network research by identifying new network structures and dynamics leveraging transactional data.
Keywords: Social network analysis; Centrality; Methods in accounting research; Fraud

David Teneyuca,
Internet cloud security: The illusion of inclusion,
Information Security Technical Report,
Volume 16, Issues 3–4,
2011,
Pages 102-107,
ISSN 1363-4127,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.istr.2011.08.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1363412711000501)
Abstract: Cloud computing has swelled into an estimated $46 billion market, representing roughly 17% of global software sales. This translates into a technology tsunami that can overwhelm the end user if they are not cautious about Internet safety. The ubiquity associated with cloud computing has created a huge false sense of security. Data, information, and applications are rapidly populating the “cloud environment”. Society is experiencing the illusion of inclusion. They see the cloud as one service from one source. The general public has no notion of the perils that lurk in the cloud. The word haze may be a better description for this atmosphere. This article will describe and discuss cloud computing technology. Furthermore, it will examine what the cloud pioneers Apple, Google and Amazon, are doing to safeguard the cloud and how they cope with the illusion of inclusion.

Jenny Abramov, Omer Anson, Michal Dahan, Peretz Shoval, Arnon Sturm,
A methodology for integrating access control policies within database development,
Computers & Security,
Volume 31, Issue 3,
2012,
Pages 299-314,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2012.01.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404812000089)
Abstract: Security in general and database protection from unauthorized access in particular, are crucial for organizations. While functional requirements are defined in the early stages of the development process, non-functional requirements such as security tend to be neglected or dealt with only at the end of the development process. Various efforts have been made to address this problem; however, none of them provide a complete framework to guide, enforce and verify the correct design of security policies, and eventually generate code from that design. We present a novel methodology that assists developers, in particular database designers, to design secure databases that comply with the organizational security policies that are related to access control. The methodology is applied in two main levels: organizational level and application development level. At the organizational level, which takes place before the development of a specific application, organizational policies are defined in the form of security patterns. These patterns encapsulate accumulated knowledge and best practices on security related problems. At the application development level, the data-related security requirements are defined as part of the data model. The security patterns, which have been defined at the organizational level, guide the definition and implementation of the security requirements. The correct implementation of the security patterns is verified during the design stage of the development process, before the automatic generation of the database code. The methodology is supported by a CASE tool that assists its implementation in the various stages.
Keywords: Authorization; Access control; Database design; Security patterns; Domain analysis; FOOM; ADOM; UML; Security

Ioan-Ovidiu Spatacean,
Addressing Fraud Risk by Testing the Effectiveness of Internal Control over Financial Reporting – Case of Romanian Financial Investment Companies,
Procedia Economics and Finance,
Volume 3,
2012,
Pages 230-235,
ISSN 2212-5671,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S2212-5671(12)00145-1.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212567112001451)
Abstract: The magnitude and complexity of portfolio management operations require that Romanian Financial Investment Companies are to implement and monitor an adequate internal control system over financial reporting. The assessment performed by a public accounting firm in connection with internal control over financial reporting process, provides a major impact upon the reliability of financial statements prepared by these entities and therefore can significantly influence investment decisions. The paper is focused on the relation between the effectiveness of internal controls and risk fraud, involving either misappropriation of financial assets or fraudulent reporting. We based our research on the assumption that an increase of internal controls’ effectiveness results in diminishing risk fraud involving financial assets. We attend to identify significant weak points in the chain of internal controls related to financial assets, capable to increase risk fraud and implicitly to alter the reliability on financial reporting process. Projecting reasonable countermeasures designed to respond the assessed fraud risk factors is also a main preoccupation under author artwork.
Keywords: internal control effectiveness; financial reporting process; Financial Investment Companies; SOX compliance; fraud risk oriented audit approach

Steve Mansfield-Devine,
Colin Tankard, Digital Pathways: confusion in the cloud,
Network Security,
Volume 2013, Issue 11,
2013,
Pages 17-20,
ISSN 1353-4858,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-4858(13)70127-2.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353485813701272)
Abstract: We've been talking about cloud security for so long that you'd think it would have been fixed by now. A great deal of work has been done, not least through the auspices of organisations such as the Cloud Security Alliance (CSA).1 And yet many firms remain nervous about venturing into the cloud, fearing a lack of control. And there are many loud voices both for and against cloud computing, from a security perspective. There seems to be little consensus about whether it's safe. We spoke to Colin Tankard of Digital Pathways, a firm that offers secure managed services, about this apparent confusion.

Roy Wendler,
The maturity of maturity model research: A systematic mapping study,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 54, Issue 12,
2012,
Pages 1317-1339,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2012.07.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584912001334)
Abstract: Context
Maturity models offer organizations a simple but effective possibility to measure the quality of their processes. Emerged out of software engineering, the application fields have widened and maturity model research is becoming more important. During the last two decades the publication amount steadily rose as well. Until today, no studies have been available summarizing the activities and results of the field of maturity model research.
Objective
The objective of this paper is to structure and analyze the available literature of the field of maturity model research to identify the state-of-the-art research as well as research gaps.
Method
A systematic mapping study was conducted. It included relevant publications of journals and IS conferences. Mapping studies are a suitable method for structuring a broad research field concerning research questions about contents, methods, and trends in the available publications.
Results
The mapping of 237 articles showed that current maturity model research is applicable to more than 20 domains, heavily dominated by software development and software engineering. The study revealed that most publications deal with the development of maturity models and empirical studies. Theoretical reflective publications are scarce. Furthermore, the relation between conceptual and design-oriented maturity model development was analyzed, indicating that there is still a gap in evaluating and validating developed maturity models. Finally, a comprehensive research framework was derived from the study results and implications for further research are given.
Conclusion
The mapping study delivers the first systematic summary of maturity model research. The categorization of available publications helps researchers gain an overview of the state-of-the-art research and current research gaps. The proposed research framework supports researchers categorizing their own projects. In addition, practitioners planning to use a maturity model may use the study as starting point to identify which maturity models are suitable for their domain and where limitations exist.
Keywords: Maturity models; Software management; Design-oriented research; Systematic mapping study

Tatiana Dănescu, Cristian Dogar,
COSO Principles and European Social Fund Funded Projects in Romania,
Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences,
Volume 62,
2012,
Pages 901-905,
ISSN 1877-0428,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sbspro.2012.09.152.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877042812035938)
Abstract: European Social Fund (ESF), being one of the oldest Structural Instruments of the European Union (EU) has to be implemented through projects, by public and private entities allover EU, according to the principle of “sound financial management”. But, are the Romanian ESF financed projects ready to comply to the “sound financial management” principle? The answer at this question may be delivered by a descriptive research on COSO's principles in ESF implementation context, followed by an explorative research on beneficiaries’ perception about how COSO's principles are implemented in their projects. The conclusions lead to a number of easy-recognizable and applied principles but also to some less applied principles, generating risks in ESF projects and in ESF implementation as a whole.
Keywords: COSO; European Social Fund; Projects; Sound financial management

Douglas Havelka, Jeffrey W. Merhout,
Internal information technology audit process quality: Theory development using structured group processes,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 14, Issue 3,
2013,
Pages 165-192,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2012.12.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089512000760)
Abstract: A theoretical framework of the internal information technology audit (ITA) process is developed by collecting data from multiple sources using structured group processes. A series of nominal group processes involving information technology auditors, ITA managers, and financial auditors from three different internal audit organizations was performed to generate source data. This data was then coded and analyzed using a constant comparison approach to identify the codes, indicators, concepts, and relationships included in the theory. The results reveal 26 concepts organized into six categories: Audit Organization, Client Organization, Enterprise Environment, Process and Methodology, Target Process or System, and Audit Personnel. Based on the data and the concepts identified ten propositions are suggested. The results are then compared with prior research.
Keywords: Information technology audit; Process quality; Field study; Theory development; Group process research

M. Dale Stoel, Waleed A. Muhanna,
IT internal control weaknesses and firm performance: An organizational liability lens,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 12, Issue 4,
2011,
Pages 280-304,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2011.06.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089511000376)
Abstract: The information systems literature and the public press have called for organizations to more closely scrutinize their information technology (IT) controls; however, little more than anecdotal evidence exists on the business value of quality IT internal control, beyond regulatory compliance. In this paper, we (a) advance an organizational liability perspective to the question of IT internal control value; and (b) use the unique setting provided by the enactment of the Sarbanes–Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX) to investigate the relationship between IT internal control weaknesses (ICWs) and both accounting earnings (a contemporaneous measure of firm performance) and market value (a forward looking, risk-adjusted measure of firm performance). Using a data set that provides audited annual assessments of the effectiveness of both IT and non-IT internal controls for a cross-section of companies as mandated by SOX, we find that firms that report an IT ICW have lower accounting earnings compared to firms with strong IT internal controls. We also find that IT ICW moderates the association between accounting earnings and market valuation, with firms reporting weak IT internal controls having a lower earnings multiple. These results are sustained even after controlling for non-IT ICWs and firm-specific factors that are known determinants of ICWs, and are reinforced using an inter-temporal changes analysis in which we use each firm as its own control at a different point in time. Overall, our results provide empirical evidence which suggests that IT internal controls are a strategic necessity and that information systems risk is priced by the capital markets. The implications of these findings for theory and practice are discussed.
Keywords: Internal controls; Economics of IS; Business value of IT; Sarbanes–Oxley Act (SOX); Market valuation

Ulrich Lang, Rudolf Schreiner,
Analysis of recommended cloud security controls to validate OpenPMF “policy as a service”,
Information Security Technical Report,
Volume 16, Issues 3–4,
2011,
Pages 131-141,
ISSN 1363-4127,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.istr.2011.08.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S136341271100046X)
Abstract: This paper describes some of the findings of a cloud research project the authors carried out in Q2/2011. As part of the project, the authors first identified security concerns related to cloud computing, and gaps in cloud-related standards/regulations. The authors then identified several hard-to-implement, but highly cloud-relevant, security requirements in numerous cloud (and non-cloud) regulations and guidance documents, especially related to “least privilege”, “information flow control”, and “incident monitoring/auditing/analysis”. Further study revealed that there are significant cloud technology gaps in cloud (and non-cloud) platforms, which make it difficult to effectively implement those security policy requirements. The project concluded that model-driven security policy automation offered as a cloud service and tied into the protected cloud platform is ideally suited to achieve correct, consistent, low-effort/cost policy implementation for cloud applications.
Keywords: Cloud; Security; Policy; Authorization management; Access policy; Compliance; Model-driven security; Accreditation; Audit policy; Application security; XACML; OpenPMF; NIST 800-53; NIST 800-147; NIST IR 7628; PCI-DSS; HIPAA

N. Mansor, A. Che-Ahmad, N.A. Ahmad-Zaluki, A.H. Osman,
Corporate Governance and Earnings Management: A Study on the Malaysian Family and Non-family Owned PLCs,
Procedia Economics and Finance,
Volume 7,
2013,
Pages 221-229,
ISSN 2212-5671,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S2212-5671(13)00238-4.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212567113002384)
Abstract: This study supported the claim that corporate governance (CG) mechanisms are able to overcome earnings management (EM) activities specifically from the perspective of family owned companies (FOC) and the non-family owned companies (NFOC). A total sample of 264 public listed companies (PLCs), selected based on stratified samplings, were tested. The results showed that for FOC, only number of board meetings held; while for NFOC, independence of directors, audit committee, non-duality, audit committee size, in-house internal audit function and quality differentiated auditors are the CG mechanisms that are found to be able to assist in minimizing the EM activities.
Keywords: Earnings Management; Corporate Governance; Family Owned Companies; Board of Directors; Audit Committee

Youna Jung, James B.D. Joshi,
CRiBAC: Community-centric role interaction based access control model,
Computers & Security,
Volume 31, Issue 4,
2012,
Pages 497-523,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2012.02.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404812000351)
Abstract: As one of the most efficient solutions to complex and large-scale problems, multi-agent cooperation has been in the limelight for the past few decades. Recently, many research projects have focused on context-aware cooperation to dynamically provide complex services. As cooperation in the multi-agent systems (MASs) becomes more common, guaranteeing the security of such cooperation takes on even greater importance. However, existing security models do not reflect the agents' unique features, including cooperation and context-awareness. In this paper, we propose a Community-based Role interaction-based Access Control model (CRiBAC) to allow secure cooperation in MASs. To do this, we refine and extend our preliminary RiBAC model, which was proposed earlier to support secure interactions among agents, by introducing a new concept of interaction permission, and then extend it to CRiBAC to support community-based cooperation among agents. We analyze potential problems related to interaction permissions and propose two approaches to address them. We also propose an administration model to facilitate administration of CRiBAC policies. Finally, we present the implementation of a prototype system based on a sample scenario to assess the proposed work and show its feasibility.
Keywords: Secure interaction; Secure cooperation; Access control; RBAC; Community computing; Multi-agent system

L. Fuchs, G. Pernul, R. Sandhu,
Roles in information security – A survey and classification of the research area,
Computers & Security,
Volume 30, Issue 8,
2011,
Pages 748-769,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2011.08.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016740481100099X)
Abstract: The concept of roles has been prevalent in the area of Information Security for more than 15 years already. It promises simplified and flexible user management, reduced administrative costs, improved security, as well as the integration of employees’ business functions into the IT administration. A comprehensive scientific literature collection revealed more than 1300 publications dealing with the application of sociological role theory in the context of Information Security up to now. Although there is an ANSI/NIST standard and an ISO standard proposal, a variety of competing models and interpretations of the role concept have developed. The major contribution of this survey is a categorization of the complete underlying set of publications into different classes. The main part of the work is investigating 32 identified research directions, evaluating their importance and analyzing research tendencies. An electronic bibliography including all surveyed publications together with the classification information is provided additionally. As a final contribution potential future developments in the area of role-research are considered.
Keywords: Role-based access control; RBAC; Role theory; Information Security; Survey

Louay Karadsheh,
Applying security policies and service level agreement to IaaS service model to enhance security and transition,
Computers & Security,
Volume 31, Issue 3,
2012,
Pages 315-326,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2012.01.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404812000077)
Abstract: Over a decade ago, cloud computing became an important topic for small, medium and large businesses alike. The new concept promises scalability, security, cost reduction, portability and availability. While addressing the cloud concepts over the past several years, there have been intensive discussions about the importance of the different cloud computing service model. Moreover, there were lots of discussions about the risks in migrating to cloud computing. Therefore, this paper reviews the concept of cloud computing, security policies and concentrates on Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) model. Also, the paper examines the risks encountered by implementing the Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) model in organizations. Furthermore, the paper’s aim is to discuss the role of security policies, service level agreement (SLA) and compliance for enhancing the security of the IaaS service model by presenting several applicable policies.
Keywords: Infrastructure as a service; Security policy; Service level agreement; Due diligence; Compliance; IaaS risks

Richard Moulds,
Protecting cardholder data with encryption,
Computer Fraud & Security,
Volume 2008, Issue 6,
2008,
Pages 14-15,
ISSN 1361-3723,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-3723(08)70099-X.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S136137230870099X)
Abstract: Richard Moulds analyses how encryption can help organisations reach PCI DSS standards.

Wei Jiang, Kathleen Hertz Rupley, Jia Wu,
Internal control deficiencies and the issuance of going concern opinions,
Research in Accounting Regulation,
Volume 22, Issue 1,
2010,
Pages 40-46,
ISSN 1052-0457,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.racreg.2009.11.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1052045709000538)
Abstract: This study examines whether internal control quality is associated with auditors’ going concern assessments following the implementation of the Sarbanes–Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX). Based on a sample of financially distressed firms that issued internal control reports under SOX Section 404 in 2004 and 2005, we find that firms with material internal control weaknesses are more likely to receive going concern audit opinions. Further analysis indicates that the positive association between disclosures of material weaknesses and auditors’ propensity to issue a going concern opinions is largely driven by a subset of firms that disclose company-level material weaknesses, suggesting that only the more severe type of internal control material weakness influences the going concern assessment. These findings add to our understanding of the audit opinion formation process and the potentially important impact of internal control quality on that process.

Quan Pham, Jason Reid, Adrian McCullagh, Edward Dawson,
On a taxonomy of delegation,
Computers & Security,
Volume 29, Issue 5,
2010,
Pages 565-579,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2009.12.009.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404809001473)
Abstract: Delegation, from a technical point of view, is widely considered as a potential approach in addressing the problem of providing dynamic access control decisions in activities with a high level of collaboration, either within a single security domain or across multiple security domains. Although delegation continues to attract significant attention from the research community, presently, there is no published work that presents a taxonomy of delegation concepts and models. This article intends to address this gap by presenting a set of taxonomic criteria relevant to the concept of delegation. This article also applies the taxonomy to a selection of significant delegation models published in the literature.
Keywords: Delegation; Authorisation; Taxonomy; Classification; Access control

Shlomi Dinoor,
Privileged identity management: securing the enterprise,
Network Security,
Volume 2010, Issue 12,
2010,
Pages 4-6,
ISSN 1353-4858,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-4858(10)70144-6.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353485810701446)
Abstract: Within the context of identity and access management, privilege is generally understood in terms of controlling users who have high levels of authorisation to access, and control over, corporate IT systems, information assets and applications. In that important but somewhat narrow context, poor control over privileged user accounts is an all-too-common source of risk, both from a security and a compliance perspective. As outsourcing and the various instantiations of cloud-based services become increasingly essential to business operations, enterprises need to find ways to exercise governance over their critical assets and operations by extending control over privilege, both internally and externally, says Shlomi Dinoor of Cyber-Ark Software. Do Amazon and Google get privilege? If you rely on a public cloud provider to manage highly sensitive applications, it's a question worth asking. Within the context of identity and access management, privilege is generally understood in terms of controlling users who have high levels of authorisation to access, and control over, corporate IT systems, information assets and applications. In that important but somewhat narrow context, poor control over privileged user accounts is an all-too-common source of risk, both from a security and a compliance perspective.

James Carnie,
Preserving security in a multi-tenanted hosting environment,
Network Security,
Volume 2010, Issue 4,
2010,
Pages 12-15,
ISSN 1353-4858,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-4858(10)70047-7.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353485810700477)
Abstract: The capital costs alone of providing a dedicated fully resilient network, in addition to storage, backup, remote access or virtual platform, can be excessive. Customers would not see a return on investment by deploying a dedicated infrastructure which would then be vastly under-used.

Harold F.D. Hassink, Laury H. Bollen, Roger H.G. Meuwissen, Meinderd J. de Vries,
Corporate fraud and the audit expectations gap: A study among business managers,
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation,
Volume 18, Issue 2,
2009,
Pages 85-100,
ISSN 1061-9518,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.intaccaudtax.2009.05.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1061951809000135)
Abstract: This paper presents the findings of an empirical study on the audit expectations gap concerning the role of the auditor in corporate fraud cases. The purpose of the study is to assess the significance of a reasonableness gap, a deficient performance gap and a deficient standards gap in the specific context of corporate fraud. In order to distinguish all three elements of the expectations gap, respondents need a certain level of expertise on fraud. Therefore, in this research the audit expectations gap is studied primarily from the perspective of three groups of business managers, based on the fact that they typically have a special responsibility in fraud cases. Bankers are used as a control group to assess the potential differences between the views of business managers and ‘society in general’. This study provides clear evidence of a substantial audit expectations gap in the context of fraud, both with respect to the auditor's performance as well as the auditor's formal obligations as laid down in existing standards. However, compared to bankers, business managers are less inclined to judge auditors’ performance of existing duties as inadequate, and see fewer points where auditing standards should be amended.
Keywords: Audit expectations gap; Fraud; Audit function; Audit performance; Business managers; Auditing standards

Ph.I. Elsas,
X-raying Segregation of Duties: Support to illuminate an enterprise's immunity to solo-fraud,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 9, Issue 2,
2008,
Pages 82-93,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2007.10.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089508000195)
Abstract: This paper presents an application of an automated scientific method to measure the quality of the design of Segregation of Duties, also known as Separation of Duties (SoD). The automated method enables an auditor to map out a body of authorizations and X-ray it on SoD. The body of authorizations is shaped by the so-called enterprise value cycle, or supercycle. The method supports an integral, top–down, diagram-based approach, including all automated and non-automated parts of an enterprise. Input is an enterprise supercycle diagram with authorizations and abilities. Output is an overview of all potential single-employee fraud constructs, also called potential solo-frauds, that are able to undetectably subtract value from the enterprise. As remediation the automated method indicates which authorization restrictions are minimally required to create a SoD in which solo-fraud is impossible. This paper is the first publication of this method in the international scientific Accounting and Auditing community.
Keywords: Segregation of Duties; Separation of Duties; Authorization; Access Control; Internal Control; Internal Control over Financial Reporting; Assessment of the Effectiveness of Internal Control over Financial Reporting; Potential Fraud; Potential Fraud Detection

Won-Chul Cho, Chu-Sik Park, Kyoung-Soo Kang, Chang-Hee Kim, Ki-Kwang Bae,
Conceptual design of sulfur–iodine hydrogen production cycle of Korea Institute of Energy Research,
Nuclear Engineering and Design,
Volume 239, Issue 3,
2009,
Pages 501-507,
ISSN 0029-5493,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nucengdes.2008.11.017.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0029549308005694)
Abstract: The sulfur–iodine (S–I) thermochemical cycle offers a promising approach to the high efficiency production of hydrogen from nuclear power. S–I process was originally proposed by General Atomic. Especially, HI decomposition flowsheets of S–I process were proposed by several research groups. General Atomics (GA) studied I2 separation by extractive distillation using H3PO4. RWTH introduced the concept of reactive distillation. HIx stream coming from the Bunsen reaction is fed to the column. And HIx is distillated and decomposed at the same time to obtain hydrogen. Korea Institute of Energy Research (KIER) and Japan Atomic Energy Agency (JAEA) concentrate HIx using electrodialysis cell and concentrated HIx is fed to the column to produce HI vapor, which is decomposed to produce hydrogen. HI was separated from HIx solution by an extractive distillation using H3PO4. However, a large amount of electric energy was required to recycle H3PO4. Most of S–I processes have difficulties producing hydrogen because it has excess iodine in HI decomposition section. S–I cycle with electrodialysis cell uses membrane reactor to separate H2 and HIx. The current state of the membrane technology is not compatible with the process needs. We studied several cases of flowsheets to overcome the problems mentioned above. We revised the flowsheet by adding the iodine separator and excluded membrane reactor. We analyzed the thermal efficiency of S–I process based on revised flowsheet.

Callie Marie Rennison,
An investigation of reporting violence to the police: A focus on Hispanic victims,
Journal of Criminal Justice,
Volume 38, Issue 4,
2010,
Pages 390-399,
ISSN 0047-2352,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcrimjus.2010.04.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0047235210000620)
Abstract: Using conjunctive analysis of case configurations and the National Crime Victimization Survey this research explores the situational contexts of violence against Hispanics most and least often reported to the police and compares situational contexts of violence reported to the police among Hispanic, non-Hispanic White and non-Hispanic Black victims. Results indicate that Hispanic victimization most often reported varies greatly across situational context. Almost all violence reported involves a female victim, and almost all that is reported infrequently involves a never-married, uninjured male victim. Beyond those patterns, the role of all other situational factors is contingent on the specific situational context. Findings reveal wide-spread differences in situational contexts associated with the reporting of violent victimization against Hispanics, non-Hispanic Whites and non-Hispanic Blacks. Future research should continue to focus on Hispanics, with a focus on with-in group differences and longitudinal research.

Aliaksandr Lazouski, Fabio Martinelli, Paolo Mori,
Usage control in computer security: A survey,
Computer Science Review,
Volume 4, Issue 2,
2010,
Pages 81-99,
ISSN 1574-0137,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cosrev.2010.02.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1574013710000146)
Abstract: Protecting access to digital resources is one of the fundamental problems recognized in computer security. As yet it remains a challenging problem to work out, starting from the design of a system until its implementation. Access control is defined as the ability to permit or deny access to a particular resource (object) by a particular entity (subject). Three most widely used traditional access control models are: Discretionary Access Control (DAC), Mandatory Access Control (MAC), and Role Based Access Control (RBAC). Traditional access control solutions do not respond adequately to new challenges addressed by modern computer systems. Today highly distributed, network-connected, heterogeneous and open computing environment requires a fine-grained, flexible, persistent and continuous model for protecting the access and usage of digital resources. This paper surveys the literature on Usage Control (UCON) model proposed by Park and Sandhu (2002) [1], Park (2003) [2] and Zhang (2006) [3]. Usage control is a novel and promising approach for access control in open, distributed, heterogeneous and network-connected computer environments. It encompasses and enhances traditional access control models, Trust Management (TM) and Digital Rights Management (DRM), and its main novelties are mutability of attributes and continuity of access decision evaluation.

Wil van der Aalst, Kees van Hee, Jan Martijn van der Werf, Akhil Kumar, Marc Verdonk,
Conceptual model for online auditing,
Decision Support Systems,
Volume 50, Issue 3,
2011,
Pages 636-647,
ISSN 0167-9236,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dss.2010.08.014.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167923610001387)
Abstract: The independent verification of the right applications of business rules in an information system is a task for auditors. The increasing complexity of information systems, and the high risks associated with violations of business rules, have created the need for Online Auditing Tools. In this paper we sketch a conceptual design for such a tool. The components of the tool are described briefly. The focus is on the database and the conformance checker, which are described in detail. The approach is illustrated with an example and some preliminary case studies from industry.
Keywords: Information assurance; Auditing; Architecture; Conceptual model; Constraints; Business rules; Conformance checking

Edward Humphreys,
Information security management standards: Compliance, governance and risk management,
Information Security Technical Report,
Volume 13, Issue 4,
2008,
Pages 247-255,
ISSN 1363-4127,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.istr.2008.10.010.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1363412708000514)
Abstract: Managing information security as opposed to the IT security is an area that is now eventually coming of age. For many years the focus has been mainly on IT security and with the implementation of such security left to the IT department and technical experts. Early in the 90s things started to change with the first draft of an information security management standard BS 7799 focusing in on security related to people, processes, information as well as IT. Since then there has been many developments taking us to where we are today with these early security management standards being transformed in international standards published by ISO/IEC. These standards are being used by hundreds of thousands of organisations using these standards worldwide. Based on the authors previously copyrighted writings, this article explores what these standards have got to offer organisations, what benefits are to be gained and how such standards have helped with compliance. In particular it focuses in on the insider threat as an example of one of the growing problems that organisations need to deal with and how these international standards are useful in helping to solve the insider threat problem.

Harry Jiannan Wang, J. Leon Zhao,
Constraint-centric workflow change analytics,
Decision Support Systems,
Volume 51, Issue 3,
2011,
Pages 562-575,
ISSN 0167-9236,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dss.2011.03.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167923611000893)
Abstract: In a globalized economic environment with volatile business requirements, continuous process improvement needs to be done regularly in various organizations. However, maintaining the consistency of workflow models under frequent changes is a significant challenge in the management of corporate information services. Unfortunately, few formal approaches are found in the literature for managing workflow changes systematically. In this paper, we propose an analytical framework for workflow change management through formal modeling of workflow constraints, leading to an approach called Constraint-centric Workflow Change Analytics (CWCA). A core component of CWCA is the formal definition and analysis of workflow change anomalies. We operationalize CWCA by developing a change anomaly detection algorithm and validate it in the context of procurement management. A prototype system based on an open-source rule engine is presented to provide a proof-of-concept implementation of CWCA.
Keywords: Workflow modeling; Workflow constraint; Workflow changes; First order logic; Business process management; Change management

Daniel Mellado, Eduardo Fernández-Medina, Mario Piattini,
Security requirements engineering framework for software product lines,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 52, Issue 10,
2010,
Pages 1094-1117,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2010.05.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584910000960)
Abstract: Context
The correct analysis and understanding of security requirements are important because they assist in the discovery of any security or requirement defects or mistakes during the early stages of development. Security requirements engineering is therefore both a central task and a critical success factor in product line development owing to the complexity and extensive nature of software product lines (SPL). However, most of the current SPL practices in requirements engineering do not adequately address security requirements engineering.
Objective
The aim of this approach is to describe a holistic security requirements engineering framework with which to facilitate the development of secure SPLs and their derived products. It will conform with the most relevant security standards with regard to the management of security requirements, such as ISO/IEC 27001 and ISO/IEC 15408.
Results
This framework is composed of: a security requirements engineering process for SPL (SREPPLine) driven by security standards; a Security Reference Meta Model to manage the variability of those SPL artefacts related to security requirements; and a tool (SREPPLineTool) which implements the meta-model and supports the process.
Method
A complete explanation of the framework will be provided. The process will be formally specified with SPEM 2.0 and the repository will be formally specified with an XML grammar. The application of SREPPLine and SREPPLineTool will be illustrated through a description of a simple example as a preliminary validation.
Conclusion
Although there have been several attempts to fill the gap between requirements engineering and SPL requirements engineering, no systematic approach with which to define security quality requirements and to manage their variability and their related security artefacts in SPL models is, as yet, available. The contribution of this work is that of providing a systematic approach for the management of the security requirements and their variability from the early stages of product line development in order to facilitate the conformance of SPL products with the most relevant security standards.
Keywords: Security requirements engineering; Security software engineering; Product lines; Requirements engineering; Security requirement; ISO 27001

Craig R. Reinemeyer, Julio C. Prado, Eric C. Nichols, Alan A. Marchiondo,
Efficacy of pyrantel pamoate and ivermectin paste formulations against naturally acquired Oxyuris equi infections in horses,
Veterinary Parasitology,
Volume 171, Issues 1–2,
2010,
Pages 106-110,
ISSN 0304-4017,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.vetpar.2010.02.042.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0304401710001354)
Abstract: In recent years, numerous veterinary practitioners have reported anecdotal episodes in which anthelmintic treatment did not appear to deliver the expected efficacy against equine pinworms (Oxyuris equi). Anthelmintic resistance has not been demonstrated formally in equine pinworms, so a clinical study was designed to evaluate the efficacy of paste formulations of pyrantel pamoate or ivermectin against naturally acquired infections with O. equi. Twenty-one horses (>4 months to 15 years of age) with patent, naturally acquired pinworm infections were blocked by source of origin and allocated randomly to one of three treatment groups: horses (n=7) assigned to Group 1 were treated orally with pyrantel pamoate paste at a dosage of 13.2mg/kg (2× label dosage), Group 2 horses (n=7) were untreated controls, and horses (n=7) assigned to Group 3 were treated orally with ivermectin paste at a dosage of 200μg/kg. Fourteen days after treatment, horses were euthanatized, necropsied, and large intestinal contents were processed for recovery of adult pinworms. In addition, duplicate 1% aliquots of intestinal contents from the cecum, ventral colon, dorsal colon, and small colon were collected, preserved, and examined for recovery and enumeration of fourth-stage larval O. equi. Anthelmintic efficacy against pinworms was evaluated by comparing the post-treatment worm counts of Groups 1 and 3 to those of control animals. Mean numbers of O. equi adults recovered postmortem were significantly decreased by both pyrantel pamoate (P=0.0366) and ivermectin (P=0.0137) treatment, with respective efficacies of 91.2% and 96.0%. In addition, both products demonstrated >99% efficacy against fourth-stage O. equi larvae. The current study demonstrated acceptable adulticidal and larvicidal efficacy of both pyrantel pamoate and ivermectin paste formulations against O. equi and did not support the existence of macrocyclic lactone or pyrimidine resistance in the pinworm populations evaluated.
Keywords: Equine; Anthelmintic; Oxyuris equi; Pyrantel; Ivermectin; Resistance

Alessandro Armando, Enrico Giunchiglia, Marco Maratea, Serena Elisa Ponta,
An action-based approach to the formal specification and automatic analysis of business processes under authorization constraints,
Journal of Computer and System Sciences,
Volume 78, Issue 1,
2012,
Pages 119-141,
ISSN 0022-0000,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcss.2011.02.015.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022000011000444)
Abstract: Business processes under authorization control are sets of coordinated activities subject to a security policy stating which agent can access which resource. Their behavior is difficult to predict due to the complex and unexpected interleaving of different execution flows within the process. Serious flaws may thus go undetected and manifest themselves only after deployment. For this reason, business processes are being considered a new, promising application domain for formal methods and model checking techniques in particular. In this paper we show that action-based languages provide a rich and natural framework for the formal specification of and automated reasoning about business processes under authorization constraints. We do this by discussing the application of the action language C to the specification of a business process from the banking domain that is representative of an important class of business processes of practical relevance. Furthermore we show that a number of reasoning tasks that arise in this context (namely checking whether the control flow together with the security policy meets the expected security properties, building a security policy for the given business process under given security requirements, and finding an allocation of tasks to agents that guarantees the completion of the business process) can be carried out automatically using the Causal Calculator CCalc. We also compare C with the prominent specification language used in model-checking.11This paper is an extended and thoroughly revised version of Armando et al. (2009) [1].
Keywords: Knowledge representation and reasoning; Action languages; Business processes

Sarah Hilley,
Plugging the holes in data protection – US Government update,
Computer Fraud & Security,
Volume 2008, Issue 3,
2008,
Pages 14-16,
ISSN 1361-3723,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-3723(08)70047-2.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361372308700472)
Abstract: Attacks against US Government IT systems are on the rise. But despite the mounting pressure, government departments are yet to get their IT security ship shape. A majority of US agencies are encrypting data but considerably fewer have been able to manage sensitive information extraction from valued databases. Sarah Hilley digests a recent report.

Tsung-Yi Chen, Yuh-Min Chen, Hui-Chuan Chu,
Developing a trust evaluation method between co-workers in virtual project team for enabling resource sharing and collaboration,
Computers in Industry,
Volume 59, Issue 6,
2008,
Pages 565-579,
ISSN 0166-3615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2008.01.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016636150800016X)
Abstract: An increasing number of companies, especially those with knowledge-intensive R&D programs, have turned to virtual project teams (VPTs) in recent years to generate the greatest competitive advantage from limited labor and resources. Members of a VPT are not limited to an enterprise and usually have various core capabilities. Successful implementation of a VPT depends on collaboration among team members during a project; such collaboration relies on efficient management of distributed resources, safe and timely resource sharing, and reliable trust evaluation mechanisms that facilitate the greatest degree of information sharing and minimize information transfer delays. This study first identifies VPT characteristics and the particular requirements of effective resource management and sharing. A VPT model is then presented. By applying this model, this study presents a trust evaluation method that assists VPT members in determining whether resource holders have made appropriate decisions to share resources with other VPT members. The proposed evaluation method comprises a trust evaluation between two VPT workers and a reliability evaluation of worker. Each resource can have a threshold that is a benchmark for resource sharing. The trust evaluation method for the proposed VPT model enables secure resource sharing across team and enterprise boundaries, facilitates collaboration, and enhances information transparency among team members.
Keywords: Trust; Virtual project team; Resource sharing; Collaboration

Christine Cooper, Lesley Catchpowle,
US imperialism in action: An audit-based appraisal of the Coalition Provisional Authority in Iraq,
Critical Perspectives on Accounting,
Volume 20, Issue 6,
2009,
Pages 716-734,
ISSN 1045-2354,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpa.2008.12.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1045235409000197)
Abstract: This paper drawing from audit reports reflects upon the post-Iraq war administration the Coalition Provisional Authority (CPA). It argues that the CPA's compliance with basic levels of decent public administration were akin to Guantanamo's compliance with basic levels of natural justice. The audit reports demonstrate that the CPA was a chaotic administration which spent billions without proper controls or procedures and left precious Iraqi oil revenues open to fraudulent acts. The CPA failed to comply with its obligations under UN resolutions. It identifies the geopolitical/economic implications of the US government which was partly motivated by economic concerns but it was also motivated by political concerns—the imposition of US hegemony. It then turns to the broader economic imperatives of the falling rate of profit and the imposition of neoliberalism (market fundamentalism).
Keywords: Iraq war; Coalition Provisional Authority; Imperialism; Audit

Qi Li, Xinwen Zhang, Mingwei Xu, Jianping Wu,
Towards secure dynamic collaborations with group-based RBAC model,
Computers & Security,
Volume 28, Issue 5,
2009,
Pages 260-275,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2008.12.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404808001375)
Abstract: Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) has become a popular technique for security purposes with increasing accessibility of information and data, especially in large-scale enterprise environments. However, authorization management in dynamic and ad-hoc collaborations between different groups or domains in these environments is still an unresolved problem. Traditional RBAC models cannot solve this problem because they cannot support security policy composition from different groups, and lack efficient administrative models for dynamic collaborations. In this paper, we propose a group-based RBAC model (GB-RBAC) for secure collaborations which is based on RBAC96 and extended with group concept to capture dynamic users and permissions. We propose a decentralized security administrative model for GB-RBAC to address the management issues of RBAC in collaborations. As a unique property, our model supports two levels of authorization management: global or system level management by system administrators and local or group level management by group administrators. In this way, our model implements the principles of management autonomy and separation of duty (SoD) in security administrations. We apply our model for authorization management in collaborations by introducing the concept of virtual group. A virtual group is built for a collaboration between multi-groups, where all members build trust relation within the group and are authorized to join and perform operations for the collaborative work. Compared with existing work, our model supports dynamic and ad-hoc collaborations in large-scale systems with the properties of controllable, decentralized, and fine-grained security management.
Keywords: Access control; RBAC; Group-based RBAC; GB-RBAC; Secure collaborations

Jianyong Chen, Guihua Wu, Zhen Ji,
Secure interoperation of identity managements among different circles of trust,
Computer Standards & Interfaces,
Volume 33, Issue 6,
2011,
Pages 533-540,
ISSN 0920-5489,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csi.2011.02.008.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920548911000195)
Abstract: Secure Interoperation between different identity management (IdM) systems has become a challenge. In this paper, a framework is proposed to discover interoperation paths among identity providers (IdP) located in different circles of trust (CoT). According to the proposed framework, interoperation path and path discovery algorithm are proposed to establish a trust relationship between different CoTs. Security of the interoperation path is improved by the deployment of authentication assurance level (AAL) conversion and role mapping. Moreover, security of the path discovery process is guaranteed by path authentication which can resist security violation.
Keywords: Identity management; Secure interoperation; Authentication assurance level

Dario V Forte,
The role of the Information Security Manager in cutting-edge companies,
Network Security,
Volume 2009, Issue 8,
2009,
Pages 4-5,
ISSN 1353-4858,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-4858(09)70073-X.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S135348580970073X)
Abstract: Companies developing an awareness of information security issues generally entrust the associated responsibilities to whoever manages the information infrastructure and network. Often, the professionals who work in this department have already confronted the problem of which architecture and perimeter protection devices to choose and are considered to be the people in the company who have the most expertise in this area.

Paolo Guarda, Nicola Zannone,
Towards the development of privacy-aware systems,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 51, Issue 2,
2009,
Pages 337-350,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2008.04.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584908000578)
Abstract: Privacy and data protection are pivotal issues in nowadays society. They concern the right to prevent the dissemination of sensitive or confidential information of individuals. Many studies have been proposed on this topic from various perspectives, namely sociological, economic, legal, and technological. We have recognized the legal perspective as being the basis of all other perspectives. Actually, data protection regulations set the legal principles and requirements that must be met by organizations when processing personal data. The objective of this work is to provide a reference base for the development of methodologies tailored to design privacy-aware systems to be compliant with data protection regulations.
Keywords: Privacy-related legal requirements; Requirements Engineering; Privacy policy; Privacy-Aware Access Control

Wesam Darwish, Konstantin Beznosov,
Analysis of ANSI RBAC Support in COM+,
Computer Standards & Interfaces,
Volume 32, Issue 4,
2010,
Pages 197-214,
ISSN 0920-5489,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csi.2009.12.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920548910000024)
Abstract: We analyze access control mechanisms of the COM+ architecture and define a configuration of the COM+ protection system in more precise and less ambiguous language than the COM+ documentation. Using this configuration, we suggest an algorithm that formally specifies the semantics of authorization decisions in COM+. We analyze the level of support for the American National Standard Institute's (ANSI) specification of role-based access control (RBAC) components and functional specification in COM+. Our results indicate that COM+ falls short of supporting even Core RBAC. The main limitations exist due to the tight integration of the COM+ architecture with the underlying operating system, which prevents support for session management and role activation, as specified in ANSI RBAC.
Keywords: COM+; RBAC; Access control

Carles Martínez-García, Guillermo Navarro-Arribas, Simon N. Foley, Vicenç Torra, Joan Borrell,
Flexible secure inter-domain interoperability through attribute conversion,
Information Sciences,
Volume 181, Issue 16,
2011,
Pages 3491-3507,
ISSN 0020-0255,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2011.04.023.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025511001976)
Abstract: The access control policy of an application that is composed of interoperating components/services is defined in terms of the access control policies enforced by the respective services. These individual access control policies are heterogenous in the sense that the services may be independently developed and managed and it is not practical to assume that all policies are defined with respect to some uniform domain vocabulary of policy attributes. A framework is described that provides a domain mapping for heterogenous policies. A fuzzy-based conversion mechanism determines the degree to which an access control attribute of one (service) policy may safely interoperate with an access control attribute of another (service) policy. The approach is scalable in the sense that it is not necessary to a priori specify every pairwise policy interoperation relationship, rather, where obvious interpretations exist then policy relationships are specified, while other relationships are inferred using the fuzzy mechanism.
Keywords: Access control; Interoperability; Attribute conversion; Flexibility

Richard Hunt, Marc Jackson,
An introduction to Continuous Controls Monitoring,
Computer Fraud & Security,
Volume 2010, Issue 6,
2010,
Pages 16-19,
ISSN 1361-3723,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-3723(10)70069-5.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361372310700695)
Abstract: Today's current economic climate has presented many major headaches for employers. One that is discussed less often than reduced sales and higher operating costs is the increased risk of employee fraud. The elevated risk of being made redundant, or the frustration of having salaries frozen (or even reduced) for the foreseeable future, can make previously loyal staff search for control gaps in a business process that can be exploited for their financial gain. In addition, poor security and inappropriate levels of system access can lead to increased opportunities for users to perform fraudulent activities that can ultimately result in inaccurate financial reporting, or even material misstatements.

Craig R. Reinemeyer, Julio C. Prado, Eric C. Nichols, Alan A. Marchiondo,
Efficacy of pyrantel pamoate against a macrocyclic lactone-resistant isolate of Parascaris equorum in horses,
Veterinary Parasitology,
Volume 171, Issues 1–2,
2010,
Pages 111-115,
ISSN 0304-4017,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.vetpar.2010.02.041.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0304401710001342)
Abstract: The expanding prevalence of Parascaris equorum populations that are resistant to macrocyclic lactone (ML) anthelmintics makes it desirable to identify dewormers which remain effective. The objective was to evaluate the efficacy of pyrantel pamoate in 14 suckling foals that had been infected orally with ∼600 larvated eggs of a P. equorum isolate selected for ML resistance (ML-R). Seventy days after inoculation, foals were weaned, housed individually, and fecal samples were examined frequently to detect the onset of patency. Between 73 and 80 days post-inoculation, all 14 foals developed P. equorum egg counts ≥150 eggs per gram (EPG). An initial cohort of eight foals was treated orally with ivermectin paste (200μg/kg) 84–91 days post-inoculation. Egg counts were reduced by only 47% at 2 weeks after ivermectin treatment, confirming the ML-R status of the isolate. A second cohort of six foals was not treated with ivermectin. Within each cohort, eligible foals were allocated randomly to treated (pyrantel pamoate; n=7) or untreated control (n=7) groups. Treated foals were dosed orally on Day 0 with a paste formulation of pyrantel pamoate at 13.2mg/kg. Mean ascarid egg counts of treated foals were reduced by 96.0% and 98.8% at 1 and 2 weeks post-treatment, respectively. On Day 14, foals were euthanatized and specimens of P. equorum were recovered from the gut contents, preserved in 10% formalin, and counted. Mean numbers of P. equorum adults recovered postmortem were significantly lower (P=0.0031) in foals treated with pyrantel pamoate (X¯=1.7; range 0–16) compared to control foals (X¯=63.0; range 0–320). A paste formulation of pyrantel pamoate, at a dosage of 13.2mg/kg, was 97.3% effective against a ML-R isolate of P. equorum.
Keywords: Equine; Anthelmintic; Parascaris; Pyrantel; Resistance

Jeff Everett, Constance Friesen,
Humanitarian accountability and performance in the Théâtre de l’Absurde,
Critical Perspectives on Accounting,
Volume 21, Issue 6,
2010,
Pages 468-485,
ISSN 1045-2354,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpa.2010.01.014.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1045235410000493)
Abstract: This paper examines the move towards accountability in the field of humanitarian relief. Borrowing from the work of Judith Butler and Samuel Beckett, this move is framed as a performance in the Théâtre de l’Absurde. An ironic and agonistic play that occurs both on and off stage, this contest pits humanitarians against their donors. While donors increasingly ask humanitarians to follow technical scripts in their performances, the latter counter by offering scripts that highlight the humanitarian's moral obligation to the ‘suffering other’. The paper examines scripts of the oldest and most-venerable actor, the Red Cross, as well as those of two important standard-setters, the Humanitarian Accountability Partnership and the Sphere Project. The paper reveals how these actors jeopardize their goals by adhering to a number of contradictory scripts related to neutrality, commerce, and performance. The paper further demonstrates the inseparability of technical and moral accountability, as well as draws attention to the ‘grotesque’ nature of modern humanitarian assistance.
Keywords: Beckett; Butler; Humanitarian Accountability Partnership (HAP); Performance indicators; Red Cross; Sphere; Théâtre de l’Absurde

Alejandro Russo, Andrei Sabelfeld,
Securing interaction between threads and the scheduler in the presence of synchronization,
The Journal of Logic and Algebraic Programming,
Volume 78, Issue 7,
2009,
Pages 593-618,
ISSN 1567-8326,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jlap.2008.09.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1567832608000829)
Abstract: The problem of information flow in multithreaded programs remains an important open challenge. Existing approaches to specifying and enforcing information-flow security often suffer from over-restrictiveness, relying on nonstandard semantics, lack of compositionality, inability to handle dynamic threads, inability to handle synchronization, scheduler dependence, and efficiency overhead for the code that results from security-enforcing transformations. This paper suggests a remedy for some of these shortcomings by developing a novel treatment of the interaction between threads and the scheduler. As a result, we present a permissive noninterference-like security specification and a compositional security type system that provably enforces this specification. The type system guarantees security for a wide class of schedulers and provides a flexible and efficiency-friendly treatment of dynamic threads.
Keywords: Information flow; Multithreading; Synchronization; Noninterference; Security

Ahmed Awad, Matthias Weidlich, Mathias Weske,
Visually specifying compliance rules and explaining their violations for business processes,
Journal of Visual Languages & Computing,
Volume 22, Issue 1,
2011,
Pages 30-55,
ISSN 1045-926X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvlc.2010.11.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1045926X10000716)
Abstract: A business process is a set of steps designed to be executed in a certain order to achieve a business value. Such processes are often driven by and documented using process models. Nowadays, process models are also applied to drive process execution. Thus, correctness of business process models is a must. Much of the work has been devoted to check general, domain-independent correctness criteria, such as soundness. However, business processes must also adhere to and show compliance with various regulations and constraints, the so-called compliance requirements. These are domain-dependent requirements. In many situations, verifying compliance on a model level is of great value, since violations can be resolved in an early stage prior to execution. However, this calls for using formal verification techniques, e.g., model checking, that are too complex for business experts to apply. In this paper, we utilize a visual language, BPMN-Q, to express compliance requirements visually in a way similar to that used by business experts to build process models. Still, using a pattern based approach, each BPMN-Q graph has a formal temporal logic expression in computational tree logic (CTL). Moreover, the user is able to express constraints, i.e., compliance rules, regarding control flow and data flow aspects. In order to provide valuable feedback to a user in case of violations, we depend on temporal logic querying approaches as well as BPMN-Q to visually highlight paths in a process model whose execution causes violations.
Keywords: Business process modeling; Compliance checking; Visual modeling; Anti-patterns

Philip W.L. Fong, Simon Orr,
Isolating untrusted software extensions by custom scoping rules,
Computer Languages, Systems & Structures,
Volume 36, Issue 3,
2010,
Pages 268-287,
ISSN 1477-8424,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cl.2009.12.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S147784240900044X)
Abstract: In a modern programming language, scoping rules determine the visibility of names in various regions of a program. In this work, we examine the idea of allowing an application developer to customize the scoping rules of its underlying language. We demonstrate that such an ability can serve as the cornerstone of a security architecture for dynamically extensible systems. A run-time module system, IsoMod, is proposed for the Java platform to facilitate software isolation. A core application may create namespaces dynamically and impose arbitrary name visibility policies (i.e., scoping rules) to control whether a name is visible, to whom it is visible, and in what way it can be accessed. Because IsoMod exercises name visibility control at load time, loaded code runs at full speed. Furthermore, because IsoMod access control policies are maintained separately, they evolve independently from core application code. In addition, the IsoMod policy language provides a declarative means for expressing a very general form of visibility constraints. Not only can the IsoMod policy language simulate a sizable subset of permissions in the Java 2 security architecture, it does so with policies that are robust to changes in software configurations. The IsoMod policy language is also expressive enough to completely encode a capability type system known as Discretionary Capability Confinement. In spite of its expressiveness, the IsoMod policy language admits an efficient implementation strategy. Name visibility control in the style of IsoMod is therefore a lightweight access control mechanism for Java-style language environments.
Keywords: Access control; Name visibility control; Custom scoping rules; Language-based security; Java

Mark Springer, Ilhyung Kim,
Managing the order pipeline to reduce supply chain volatility,
European Journal of Operational Research,
Volume 203, Issue 2,
2010,
Pages 380-392,
ISSN 0377-2217,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejor.2009.08.009.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0377221709005475)
Abstract: The bullwhip effect in particular, and supply chain volatility in general, has been the subject of much analytical and empirical investigation by researchers. One goal of this work has been to determine supply chain designs and policies that minimize volatility. Using a system dynamics approach, we use three distinct supply chain volatility metrics to compare the ability of two alternative pipeline inventory management policies to respond to a demand shock. The results indicate that no one policy dominates on all three metrics of supply chain volatility. A simplistic static pipeline policy minimizes the bullwhip effect and lessens the likelihood of on-hand inventory oscillations, while a more sophisticated dynamic pipeline policy may converge more rapidly to the new equilibrium. In addition, simulation results suggest that the dynamic policy provides better customer service through fewer stockouts and backorders.
Keywords: Supply chain management; System dynamics; Supply chain volatility

Giovanna Lehmann Miotto, Igor Aleksandrov, Antonio Amorim, Giuseppe Avolio, Elisabeta Badescu, Mihai Caprini, Alina Corso-Radu, Georgiana L. Darlea, Andre dos Anjos, Ivan Fedorko, Andrei Kazarov, Serguei Kolos, Vladislav Kotov, Andrew J. Lankford, Marius Leahu, Livio Mapelli, Raul Murillo Garcia, Yuri Ryabov, John E. Sloper, Igor Soloviev, Lourenco Vaz Gil Lopes,
Configuration and control of the ATLAS trigger and data acquisition,
Nuclear Instruments and Methods in Physics Research Section A: Accelerators, Spectrometers, Detectors and Associated Equipment,
Volume 623, Issue 1,
2010,
Pages 549-551,
ISSN 0168-9002,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nima.2010.03.066.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168900210006303)
Abstract: ATLAS is a general purpose experiment aimed at studying high-energy particle interactions at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC). This paper describes the evolution of the Controls and Configuration system of the ATLAS Trigger and Data Acquisition from the Technical Design Report to the first events taken with circulating beams. We present the lessons learned during the development.
Keywords: LHC; ATLAS; Data acquisition; Online software; Run control

Sudha Iyer,
New approaches to securing the database,
Network Security,
Volume 2009, Issue 11,
2009,
Pages 4-8,
ISSN 1353-4858,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-4858(09)70120-5.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353485809701205)
Abstract: Much of the effort in recent years to secure the corporate IT infrastructure has focused on the perimeter – how to defend the enterprise from external intruders, from hacking and from malicious attacks. The corporate network has also seen its share of improvements in security, providing a further layer of protection. The data layer, however, remains the soft underbelly of enterprise IT infrastructure. The technology required to monitor and block suspicious database activity has come a long way and has evolved from native audit to network monitoring to ever more sophisticated host based sensors. Here we discuss the new approaches organisations can take to further securing the database. Much of the effort in recent years to secure corporate IT infrastructure has focused on the perimeter – how to defend the enterprise from external intruders, hacking and malicious attacks. The corporate network has also seen its share of improvements in security, providing a further layer of protection. The data layer, however, remains the soft underbelly of enterprise IT infrastructure.

Mike Small,
The root of the problem – malice, misuse or mistake?,
Computer Fraud & Security,
Volume 2009, Issue 1,
2009,
Pages 6-9,
ISSN 1361-3723,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-3723(09)70008-9.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361372309700089)
Abstract: Organisations worldwide rely on business-critical information systems to run their businesses, yet a major loophole for many of these systems is the administrator account. Much has been made of the threat of external hackers who cause security breaches in organisations. Although this is a real problem, the insiders in an organisation may be responsible for as many security breaches as external hackers. In addition, not only malice but also mistakes and misuse by employees are an important reason for loss of vital services. How can organisations protect themselves from these problems?

J.W. Fernandez, P.W. Cleary, M.D. Sinnott, R.D. Morrison,
Using SPH one-way coupled to DEM to model wet industrial banana screens,
Minerals Engineering,
Volume 24, Issue 8,
2011,
Pages 741-753,
ISSN 0892-6875,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mineng.2011.01.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0892687511000227)
Abstract: Large banana screens with multiple decks are used extensively in the process separation of many valuable export commodities. They are high capacity vibrating screens with a curved profile. Discrete Element Method (DEM) modelling using non-spherical particles has previously provided significant insight into the operation of these dry industrial screens. Here we introduce the use of Smoothed Particle Hydrodynamics (SPH) to model the flow of slurry (water and fine material) through a double deck banana screen. This paper firstly reports on the underlying DEM model of the coarse particulate flow on a full-scale banana screen. We then use Smoothed Particle Hydrodynamics (SPH) to model the transport of fine particle slurry over and through the double deck banana screen. Finally, we combine the DEM with SPH models using a one-way coupling to simulate the effects of adding a slurry flow to coarse particulates on the banana screen. The key outcomes from this study are that; SPH is ideally suited for the high speeds and the high fragmented and filamentary nature of the fluid flow through the screen deck openings; the fluid only (SPH) model of slurry behaves similarly to the DEM approach in that more fluid is screened as the velocity slows, except near the earlier panels on the top deck; and, use of a porous media derived from DEM in one-way coupled approach with SPH produces clear and reasonable changes in fluid structure, separation and wetting of the screens consistent with slurry behaviour. Specifically, the fluid layer was much thicker in the coupled case, with slurry being trapped inside a coarse particle bed and which is sensitive to the fluid viscosity.
Keywords: SPH; DEM; Banana screen; Separation; Slurry flow

Hamed Okhravi, David M. Nicol,
Application of trusted network technology to industrial control networks,
International Journal of Critical Infrastructure Protection,
Volume 2, Issue 3,
2009,
Pages 84-94,
ISSN 1874-5482,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijcip.2009.07.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1874548209000171)
Abstract: Interconnections between industrial control networks and enterprise networks expose instrumentation and control systems and the critical infrastructure components they operate to a variety of cyber attacks. Several architectural standards and security best practices have been proposed for industrial control systems. However, they are based on older architectures and do not leverage the latest hardware and software technologies. This paper describes new technologies that can be applied to the design of next generation security architectures for industrial control systems. The technologies are discussed along with their security benefits and design trade-offs.
Keywords: Industrial control systems; Trusted networks; Firewalls; Security architecture

Gregory A. Jonas, Stephen R. Moehrle, Jennifer A. Reynolds-Moehrle,
Developments in accounting regulation: A synthesis and annotated bibliography of evidence and commentary in the 2007 academic literature,
Research in Accounting Regulation,
Volume 22, Issue 2,
2010,
Pages 71-86,
ISSN 1052-0457,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.racreg.2010.07.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1052045710000202)
Abstract: In this article, we synthesize in annotated bibliography form, recent regulation-related findings and commentaries in the academic literature. This annotated bibliography is one in a series of bibliographies that summarizes regulation-related academic research. We reviewed academic outlets such as The Accounting Review, The Journal of Accounting Research, The Journal of Accounting and Economics, Accounting Horizons, The Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance, The Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, The Journal of Business, Finance & Accounting, Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory, and Research in Accounting Regulation. We annotate results of regulation-related research studies and key points from regulation-related commentaries.
Keywords: Accounting regulation; Sarbanes-oxley; Accounting policy; Audit; Governmental accounting

Dario Forte,
So are we going to govern this security business?,
Network Security,
Volume 2009, Issue 1,
2009,
Pages 18-20,
ISSN 1353-4858,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-4858(09)70009-1.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353485809700091)
Abstract: Budget cuts, financial crises, compliance, and information security are currently at odds with one another in spite of the fact that they are all of equal strategic importance. They are managed in various ways by company functions which do not share the same priorities and budgets. IT security functions, for example, generally demonstrate a tactical commitment to maintaining existing platforms, with some emphasis on ‘emergency’ issues such as data loss prevention. At higher levels, some attention is paid to internal monitoring for prevention of fraud, general company security incidents, and illicit acts, the cost of which is high but justified by the requisites of good governance.

Alfonso Rodríguez, Eduardo Fernández-Medina, Juan Trujillo, Mario Piattini,
Secure business process model specification through a UML 2.0 activity diagram profile,
Decision Support Systems,
Volume 51, Issue 3,
2011,
Pages 446-465,
ISSN 0167-9236,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dss.2011.01.018.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167923611000479)
Abstract: Business processes have become important resources, both for an enterprise's performance and to enable it to maintain its competitiveness. The languages used for business process representation have, in recent years, been improved and new notations have appeared. However, despite the wide acceptance of the importance of business process security, to date the business analyst perspective in relation to security has hardly been dealt with. Moreover, security requirements cannot be represented in modern business process modeling notations. In this paper, we present an extension of UML 2.0 activity diagrams which will allow security requirements to be specified in business processes. Our proposal, denominated as BPSec (Business Process Security), is Model Driven Architecture compliant since it is possible to obtain a set of UML artifacts (Platform Independent Model-PIM) used in software development from a Secure Business Process model specification (Computation Independent Model-CIM). We also present the application of our approach to an example based on a typical health care institution, in which our M-BPSec method is employed as a framework for the use of our UML extension.
Keywords: Business process; Security requirement; UML 2.0; Activity diagrams

Marcello La Rosa, Hajo A. Reijers, Wil M.P. van der Aalst, Remco M. Dijkman, Jan Mendling, Marlon Dumas, Luciano García-Bañuelos,
APROMORE: An advanced process model repository,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 38, Issue 6,
2011,
Pages 7029-7040,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2010.12.012.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417410013758)
Abstract: Business process models are becoming available in large numbers due to their widespread use in many industrial applications such as enterprise and quality engineering projects. On the one hand, this raises a challenge as to their proper management: how can it be ensured that the proper process model is always available to the interested stakeholder? On the other hand, the richness of a large set of process models also offers opportunities, for example with respect to the re-use of existing model parts for new models. This paper describes the functionality and architecture of an advanced process model repository, named APROMORE. This tool brings together a rich set of features for the analysis, management and usage of large sets of process models, drawing from state-of-the art research in the field of process modeling. A prototype of the platform is presented in this paper, demonstrating its feasibility, as well as an outlook on the further development of APROMORE.
Keywords: Repository; Business process model; Process collection

Xiaopu Ma, Ruixuan Li, Zhengding Lu, Wei Wang,
Mining constraints in role-based access control,
Mathematical and Computer Modelling,
Volume 55, Issues 1–2,
2012,
Pages 87-96,
ISSN 0895-7177,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mcm.2011.01.053.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0895717711000719)
Abstract: Constraints are an important aspect of role-based access control (RBAC) and sometimes argued to be the principal motivation of RBAC. While role engineering is proposed to define an architectural structure of the organization’s security policies, none of the work has employed constraint mining in migrating a non-RBAC system to an RBAC system to our knowledge, thus providing the motivation for this work. In this paper, we first define a wide variety of constraints, which are the best-known ones to date, and then create a relationship between the conventional data mining technology and the constraints. We further propose an anti-association rule mining algorithm to generate the constraints. Experiments on performance study prove the superiority of the new algorithm.
Keywords: Role-based access control (RBAC); Role engineering; Constraints; Constraint mining

George French, Mike Bond,
Caveat venditor,
Information Security Technical Report,
Volume 15, Issue 1,
2010,
Pages 28-32,
ISSN 1363-4127,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.istr.2010.10.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1363412710000282)
Abstract: Tamper-resistant Hardware Security Modules (HSMs) are a core technology used to build assurance in the security of large IT systems protecting and manipulating sensitive data. This paper draws on the authors years of experience working to deploy HSM-based solutions in the financial industry. We argue that as soon as you scratch the surface of the simple “buy and forget” model where an HSM is bought to satisfy a compliance requirement, the buyer encounters initial and ongoing challenges when trying to cover all the bases for security. There is now (compared with 10 years ago) a good public literature on HSM vulnerabilities, but even checking resistance against known threats and attack classes becomes very difficult in practice, let alone considering theoretic and new attacks which have not been widely implemented across HSM platforms. Part of the problem is the lack of security details in vendor information, part is lack of awareness of the issues for the buyers. Some older attacks such as the decimalisation table attack have been largely addressed; others such as PIN block translation (and other oracles) have not. This paper argues that the balance of responsibility between buyer and vendor to maintain security awareness has much room for improvement, and that existing certification processes such as FIPS-140 leave huge gaps that need to be covered when building assurance. In the retail sector strong buyer protections exist because the layperson cannot be expected to understand and manage all the relevant risks, but in the financial industry the assumption has been that buyers have the skills to evaluate the products – “Caveat Emptor”. But maybe it is time to redress this balance with a little “Caveat Venditor”?

Marcello La Rosa, Marlon Dumas, Arthur H.M. ter Hofstede, Jan Mendling,
Configurable multi-perspective business process models,
Information Systems,
Volume 36, Issue 2,
2011,
Pages 313-340,
ISSN 0306-4379,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2010.07.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306437910000633)
Abstract: A configurable process model provides a consolidated view of a family of business processes. It promotes the reuse of proven practices by providing analysts with a generic modeling artifact from which to derive individual process models. Unfortunately, the scope of existing notations for configurable process modeling is restricted, thus hindering their applicability. Specifically, these notations focus on capturing tasks and control-flow dependencies, neglecting equally important ingredients of business processes such as data and resources. This research fills this gap by proposing a configurable process modeling notation incorporating features for capturing resources, data and physical objects involved in the performance of tasks. The proposal has been implemented in a toolset that assists analysts during the configuration phase and guarantees the correctness of the resulting process models. The approach has been validated by means of a case study from the film industry.
Keywords: Business process; Configurable process model; EPC

Ronald Jelinek, Kate Jelinek,
Auditors gone wild: The “other” problem in public accounting,
Business Horizons,
Volume 51, Issue 3,
2008,
Pages 223-233,
ISSN 0007-6813,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bushor.2008.01.011.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0007681308000281)
Abstract: Following the scandals involving Enron, WorldCom, and Qwest Communications, the accounting profession has spent the past several years trying to get back on track. While Sarbanes-Oxley may improve the decision-making of audit professionals, and help prevent future large-scale catastrophes that hurt stockholders and bring down firms, there is another problem in public accounting that few consider and nobody has proposed to solve: deviant workplace behavior. Previous research describes deviant workplace behavior as the voluntary behavior of organizational members that violates significant organizational norms and, in so doing, threatens the well being of the organization and/or its members. Building from recent work in various business literatures, this is the first research since the passage of Sarbanes-Oxley to examine workplace deviance at Big 4 accounting firms. Taking a cross-disciplinary, collaborative approach, the authors endeavor to explain why workplace deviance has infiltrated accounting firms and how it is undermining their effectiveness and derailing their long-term prospects for success. After describing its genesis and effects, the authors prescribe several managerial strategies for preventing deviance and minimizing its effects on a firm.
Keywords: Deviant workplace behavior; Workplace deviance; Sarbanes-Oxley; Auditor behavior

Mor Peleg, Dizza Beimel, Dov Dori, Yaron Denekamp,
Situation-Based Access Control: Privacy management via modeling of patient data access scenarios,
Journal of Biomedical Informatics,
Volume 41, Issue 6,
2008,
Pages 1028-1040,
ISSN 1532-0464,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbi.2008.03.014.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1532046408000506)
Abstract: Access control is a central problem in privacy management. A common practice in controlling access to sensitive data, such as electronic health records (EHRs), is Role-Based Access Control (RBAC). RBAC is limited as it does not account for the circumstances under which access to sensitive data is requested. Following a qualitative study that elicited access scenarios, we used Object-Process Methodology to structure the scenarios and conceive a Situation-Based Access Control (SitBAC) model. SitBAC is a conceptual model, which defines scenarios where patient’s data access is permitted or denied. The main concept underlying this model is the Situation Schema, which is a pattern consisting of the entities Data-Requestor, Patient, EHR, Access Task, Legal-Authorization, and Response, along with their properties and relations. The various data access scenarios are expressed via Situation Instances. While we focus on the medical domain, the model is generic and can be adapted to other domains.
Keywords: Privacy preservation; Access control; Conceptual model; Ontology; Object-Process Methodology

Ayşe Tosun, Ayşe Bener, Burak Turhan, Tim Menzies,
Practical considerations in deploying statistical methods for defect prediction: A case study within the Turkish telecommunications industry,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 52, Issue 11,
2010,
Pages 1242-1257,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2010.06.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584910001163)
Abstract: Context
Building defect prediction models in large organizations has many challenges due to limited resources and tight schedules in the software development lifecycle. It is not easy to collect data, utilize any type of algorithm and build a permanent model at once. We have conducted a study in a large telecommunications company in Turkey to employ a software measurement program and to predict pre-release defects. Based on our prior publication, we have shared our experience in terms of the project steps (i.e. challenges and opportunities). We have further introduced new techniques that improve our earlier results.
Objective
In our previous work, we have built similar predictors using data representative for US software development. Our task here was to check if those predictors were specific solely to US organizations or to a broader class of software.
Method
We have presented our approach and results in the form of an experience report. Specifically, we have made use of different techniques for improving the information content of the software data and the performance of a Naïve Bayes classifier in the prediction model that is locally tuned for the company. We have increased the information content of the software data by using module dependency data and improved the performance by adjusting the hyper-parameter (decision threshold) of the Naïve Bayes classifier. We have reported and discussed our results in terms of defect detection rates and false alarms. We also carried out a cost–benefit analysis to show that our approach can be efficiently put into practice.
Results
Our general result is that general defect predictors, which exist across a wide range of software (in both US and Turkish organizations), are present. Our specific results indicate that concerning the organization subject to this study, the use of version history information along with code metrics decreased false alarms by 22%, the use of dependencies between modules further reduced false alarms by 8%, and the decision threshold optimization for the Naïve Bayes classifier using code metrics and version history information further improved false alarms by 30% in comparison to a prediction using only code metrics and a default decision threshold.
Conclusion
Implementing statistical techniques and machine learning on a real life scenario is a difficult yet possible task. Using simple statistical and algorithmic techniques produces an average detection rate of 88%. Although using dependency data improves our results, it is difficult to collect and analyze such data in general. Therefore, we would recommend optimizing the hyper-parameter of the proposed technique, Naïve Bayes, to calibrate the defect prediction model rather than employing more complex classifiers. We also recommend that researchers who explore statistical and algorithmic methods for defect prediction should spend less time on their algorithms and more time on studying the pragmatic considerations of large organizations.
Keywords: Software defect prediction; Experience report; Naïve Bayes; Static code attributes

Petter Gottschalk, Cathrine Filstad, Rune Glomseth, Hans Solli-Sæther,
Information management for investigation and prevention of white-collar crime,
International Journal of Information Management,
Volume 31, Issue 3,
2011,
Pages 226-233,
ISSN 0268-4012,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2010.07.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0268401210000952)
Abstract: White-collar crime is financial crime committed by upper class members of society for personal or organizational gain. White-collar criminals are individuals who tend to be wealthy, highly educated, and socially connected, and they are typically employed by and in legitimate organizations. This article presents a stage of growth model for knowledge management systems to support investigation and prevention of white-collar crime in business organizations. The four stages are labelled investigator-to-technology, investigator-to-investigator, investigator-to-information and investigator-to-application, respectively.
Keywords: Knowledge management; Information systems; Stages of growth; Financial crime

Petia Wohed, Nick Russell, Arthur H.M. ter Hofstede, Birger Andersson, Wil M.P. van der Aalst,
Patterns-based evaluation of open source BPM systems: The cases of jBPM, OpenWFE, and Enhydra Shark,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 51, Issue 8,
2009,
Pages 1187-1216,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2009.02.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584909000263)
Abstract: In keeping with the proliferation of free software development initiatives and the increased interest in the business process management domain, many open source workflow and business process management systems have appeared during the last few years and are now under active development. This upsurge gives rise to two important questions: What are the capabilities of these systems? and How do they compare to each other and to their closed source counterparts? In other words: What is the state-of-the-art in the area?. To gain an insight into these questions, we have conducted an in-depth analysis of three of the major open source workflow management systems – jBPM, OpenWFE, and Enhydra Shark, the results of which are reported here. This analysis is based on the workflow patterns framework and provides a continuation of the series of evaluations performed using the same framework on closed source systems, business process modelling languages, and web-service composition standards. The results from evaluations of the three open source systems are compared with each other and also with the results from evaluations of three representative closed source systems: Staffware, WebSphere MQ, and Oracle BPEL PM. The overall conclusion is that open source systems are targeted more toward developers rather than business analysts. They generally provide less support for the patterns than closed source systems, particularly with respect to the resource perspective, i.e. the various ways in which work is distributed amongst business users and managed through to completion.
Keywords: jBPM; OpenWFE; Enhydra shark; Business process management (BPM); Open source software; Workflow patterns

Jian Cao, Jinjun Chen, Haiyan Zhao, Minglu Li,
A policy-based authorization model for workflow-enabled dynamic process management,
Journal of Network and Computer Applications,
Volume 32, Issue 2,
2009,
Pages 412-422,
ISSN 1084-8045,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2008.02.021.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1084804508000532)
Abstract: Although workflow has been widely used to support the modeling and execution of business process, the majority of current workflow management systems are not designed and suited for supporting dynamic business processes. One of the deficiencies is the inability to model realistically the organization of an enterprise to manage the dynamic human-centric business processes. A framework for workflow-enabled dynamic business process management is described in the paper. It includes an organizational model and an authorization model for supporting dynamic business processes. More specifically, authorization policies are expressed in an SQL-like language which can be easily rewritten into query sentences for execution. In addition, the framework supports dynamic integration and execution of multiple access control polices from disparate enterprise resources. Finally, a prototype implementation of the dynamic business process management framework is described.
Keywords: Workflow; Access control policy; Dynamic business process

George Fyffe,
Addressing the insider threat,
Network Security,
Volume 2008, Issue 3,
2008,
Pages 11-14,
ISSN 1353-4858,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-4858(08)70031-X.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S135348580870031X)
Abstract: Cyber attacks are no longer the work of bored teens defacing web sites. The bad guys, including those on the inside, have valuable data in their sights. Enterprises large and small face the same considerations in protecting critical, sensitive, and personally identifiable information.

José L. Vivas, Carmen Fernández-Gago, Javier Lopez, Andrés Benjumea,
A security framework for a workflow-based grid development platform,
Computer Standards & Interfaces,
Volume 32, Issues 5–6,
2010,
Pages 230-245,
ISSN 0920-5489,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csi.2009.04.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920548909000270)
Abstract: This paper describes the security framework that is to be developed for the generic grid platform created for the project GREDIA. This platform is composed of several components that need to be secured. The platform uses the OGSA standards, so that the security framework will follow GSI, the portion of Globus that implements security. Thus, we will show the security features that GSI already provides and we will outline which others need to be created or enhanced.
Keywords: Grid; Security framework; Security services; Virtual organizations

Gary Kleinman, Asokan Anandarajan,
Inattentional blindness and its relevance to teaching forensic accounting and auditing,
Journal of Accounting Education,
Volume 29, Issue 1,
2011,
Pages 37-49,
ISSN 0748-5751,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaccedu.2011.08.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0748575111000546)
Abstract: Inattentional blindness, also known as perceptual blindness, is the phenomenon of not being able to see things that are actually there. This concept is not covered in traditional accounting classes in general and forensic accounting and auditing in particular. We discuss why forensic accountants and auditors should be aware of inattentional blindness and we show how it may impact the behavior of the individuals investigating and being investigated. We use a video to illustrate how this concept could be meaningfully incorporated into a teaching curriculum with a focus on forensic accounting and auditing. In particular, we provide illustrations of how this video could be used in forensic accounting and auditing classes to heighten student awareness of how “blind spots” could adversely affect the investigation process. We conclude by using the Leeson/Barings scandal (involving the fraud that brought down Barings bank) to illustrate how inattentional blindness can occur in a real-life fraud situation. We also provide additional material showing the relevance of inattentional blindness to the Madoff Ponzi scandal.
Keywords: Accounting fraud; Forensic accounting; Inattentional blindness; Cognitive biases; Perceptual biases

Vassilios Stathopoulos, Panayiotis Kotzanikolaou, Emmanouil Magkos,
Secure log management for privacy assurance in electronic communications,
Computers & Security,
Volume 27, Issues 7–8,
2008,
Pages 298-308,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2008.07.010.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404808000400)
Abstract: In this paper we examine logging security in the environment of electronic communication providers. We review existing security threat models for system logging and we extend these to a new security model especially suited for communication network providers, which also considers internal modification attacks. We also propose a framework for secure log management in public communication networks as well as an implementation design, in order to provide traceability under the extended security model. A key role to the proposed framework is given to an independent Regulatory Authority, which is responsible to maintain log integrity proofs in a remote environment and verify the integrity of the provider's log files during security audits.
Keywords: System logging; Network providers; Internal attacks; Integrity; Digital signatures

Yuqing Sun, Bin Gong, Xiangxu Meng, Zongkai Lin, Elisa Bertino,
Specification and enforcement of flexible security policy for active cooperation,
Information Sciences,
Volume 179, Issue 15,
2009,
Pages 2629-2642,
ISSN 0020-0255,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2009.01.040.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025509000681)
Abstract: Interoperation and services sharing among different systems are becoming new paradigms for enterprise collaboration. To keep ahead in strong competition environments, an enterprise should provide flexible and comprehensive services to partners and support active collaborations with partners and customers. Achieving such goals requires enterprises to specify and enforce flexible security policies for their information systems. Although the area of access control has been widely investigated, current approaches still do not support flexible security policies able to account for different weighs that typically characterize the various attributes of the requesting parties and transactions and reflect the access control criteria that are relevant for the enterprise. In this paper we propose a novel approach that addresses such flexibility requirements while at the same time reducing the complexity of security management. To support flexible policy specification, we define the notion of restraint rules for authorization management processes and introduce the concept of impact weight for the conditions in these restraint rules. We also introduce a new data structure for the encoding of the condition tree as well as the corresponding algorithm for efficiently evaluating conditions. Furthermore, we present a system architecture that implements above approach and supports interoperation among heterogeneous platforms.
Keywords: Security policy; Access control; Flexibility; Cooperation; RBAC

Mieke Jans, Nadine Lybaert, Koen Vanhoof,
Internal fraud risk reduction: Results of a data mining case study,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 11, Issue 1,
2010,
Pages 17-41,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2009.12.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089509000645)
Abstract: Corporate fraud represents a huge cost to the current economy. Academic literature has demonstrated how data mining techniques can be of value in the fight against fraud. This research has focused on fraud detection, mostly in a context of external fraud. In this paper, we discuss the use of a data mining approach to reduce the risk of internal fraud. Reducing fraud risk involves both detection and prevention. Accordingly, a descriptive data mining strategy is applied as opposed to the widely used prediction data mining techniques in the literature. The results of using a multivariate latent class clustering algorithm to a case company's procurement data suggest that applying this technique in a descriptive data mining approach is useful in assessing the current risk of internal fraud. The same results could not be obtained by applying a univariate analysis.
Keywords: Internal fraud; Data mining; Risk reduction; Latent class clustering

Ulf Mattsson,
Real security for virtual machines,
Network Security,
Volume 2009, Issue 4,
2009,
Pages 15-17,
ISSN 1353-4858,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-4858(09)70041-8.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353485809700418)
Abstract: Server virtualisation offers many real benefits to enterprises, maximising hardware resources and providing significant cost and energy savings. But there is a downside: all of the security issues we battle on networked systems also plague virtual machines, along with a few brand new threats to data.

Rafael Teigão, Carlos Maziero, Altair Santin,
Applying a usage control model in an operating system kernel,
Journal of Network and Computer Applications,
Volume 34, Issue 4,
2011,
Pages 1342-1352,
ISSN 1084-8045,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2011.03.019.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1084804511000737)
Abstract: Operating systems traditionally use access control mechanisms to manage access to system resources like files, network connections, and memory areas. However, classic access control models are not suitable for regulating access to the diversity of ways data is available and used today. Modern usage control models go beyond traditional access control, addressing its limitations related to attribute mutability and continuous usage permission validation. The recently proposed UCONABC model establishes a predicate-based framework to satisfy the new access/usage control needs in computing systems. This paper defines a usage control model based on UCONABC and describes a framework to implement it in an operating system kernel, on top of the existing DAC mechanism. A language for representing usage control entities and rules is also proposed, and some typical access/usage control scenarios are represented using it, to show its usefulness. Finally, a prototype of the proposed framework was built in an operating system kernel, to control the usage of local files. The prototype evaluation shows that the proposed model is feasible, straightforward, and may serve as a basis for more complex usage control frameworks.
Keywords: Access control; Usage control; Kernel services

Massimiliano Giordano, Giuseppe Polese, Giuseppe Scanniello, Genoveffa Tortora,
A system for visual role-based policy modelling,
Journal of Visual Languages & Computing,
Volume 21, Issue 1,
2010,
Pages 41-64,
ISSN 1045-926X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvlc.2009.11.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1045926X09000767)
Abstract: The definition of security policies in information systems and programming applications is often accomplished through traditional low level languages that are difficult to use. This is a remarkable drawback if we consider that security policies are often specified and maintained by top level enterprise managers who would probably prefer to use simplified, metaphor oriented policy management tools. To support all the different kinds of users we propose a suite of visual languages to specify access and security policies according to the role based access control (RBAC) model. Moreover, a system implementing the proposed visual languages is proposed. The system provides a set of tools to enable a user to visually edit security policies and to successively translate them into (eXtensible Access Control Markup Language) code, which can be managed by a Policy Based Management System supporting such policy language. The system and the visual approach have been assessed by means of usability studies and of several case studies. The one presented in this paper regards the configuration of access policies for a multimedia content management platform providing video streaming services also accessible through mobile devices.
Keywords: RBAC; Role-based security policy; Visual languages; XACML; Eclipse IDE

Xiaoran Wang, Banu Yaman, Coskun Bayrak,
A flexible modularity-based course management system,
Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences,
Volume 1, Issue 1,
2009,
Pages 2081-2085,
ISSN 1877-0428,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sbspro.2009.01.366.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877042809003693)
Abstract: Course Management Systems (CMS), a kind of eLearning system, have become an important role in education. The trend towards more flexibility and intuitiveness in eLearning systems makes the design and development of course management system increasingly complex. In order to achieve a higher quality for course management system, we introduce a conceptual model -Environment of Knowledge Tracking and Extension Process (MEKTEP) - that not only promotes reusability for efficient enhancement and functionality but also serves as architecture for designing, realizing, and evaluating eLearning process.
Keywords: CMS; RBAC; Modurality

Kevin Sloan,
Security in a virtualised world,
Network Security,
Volume 2009, Issue 8,
2009,
Pages 15-18,
ISSN 1353-4858,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-4858(09)70077-7.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353485809700777)
Abstract: Do the security challenges posed by virtualisation make it a non-starter for your sensitive business applications? There is much debate about cloud computing, which promises to deliver utility-based virtual computing to the front door of every company. Some are dismissing it as marketing hype – but if it delivers the benefits it claims, it has the potential to transform enterprise computing. So what are the challenges – and what are the opportunities posed by this development?

Rasika Dayarathna,
The principle of security safeguards: Unauthorized activities,
Computer Law & Security Review,
Volume 25, Issue 2,
2009,
Pages 165-172,
ISSN 0267-3649,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clsr.2009.02.012.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0267364909000363)
Abstract: The principle of information security safeguards is a key information privacy principle contained in every privacy legislation measure, framework, and guideline. This principle requires data controllers to use an adequate level of safeguards before processing personal information. However, privacy literature neither explains what this adequate level is nor how to achieve it. Hence, a knowledge gap has been created between privacy advocates and data controllers who are responsible for providing adequate protection. This paper takes a step toward bridging this knowledge gap by presenting an analysis of how Data Protection and Privacy Commissioners have evaluated the adequacy level of security protection measures given to personal information in selected privacy invasive cases. This study addresses both security measures used to protect personal information against unauthorized activities and the use of personal information in authentication mechanisms. This analysis also lays a foundation for building a set of guidelines that can be used by data controllers for designing, implementing, and operating both technological and organizational measures used to protect personal information.
Keywords: Information privacy; Information security; Data control; Privacy guidelines; Unauthorized data usage; Information systems design; Password/passphrase

Tsung-Yi Chen,
Knowledge sharing in virtual enterprises via an ontology-based access control approach,
Computers in Industry,
Volume 59, Issue 5,
2008,
Pages 502-519,
ISSN 0166-3615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2007.12.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166361507001790)
Abstract: Collaborating throughout a product life cycle via virtual enterprise (VE) is one of the most promising strategies for enhancing global competitiveness. Efficient and secure knowledge sharing is critical to the success of a VE. This study presents a novel approach, model and technology for knowledge access control and sharing across enterprises. First, this study proposes an ontology-based knowledge sharing model and a multiple-layer knowledge representation framework on which a knowledge access control model for knowledge sharing in a VE is proposed. In the proposed model, user authorizations permitting access to knowledge in a VE are classified into two levels: (1) basic privileges and (2) extended privileges. The former is evaluated from four dimensions, i.e. who, what, when and where, while the latter is determined by considering how three domain ontologies, i.e., product, organization and activity, are related. This study then develops a knowledge access control policy (KACP) language model which is used to identify the knowledge access control and sharing rules of a VE and all its enterprise members. The knowledge access control model proposed in this study can facilitate VE Knowledge management and sharing across enterprises, enhance knowledge sharing security and flexibility and regulate knowledge sharing to expeditiously reflect changes in the business environment.
Keywords: Virtual enterprise; Ontology; Knowledge sharing; Access control policy

Alessandro Colantonio, Roberto Di Pietro, Alberto Ocello, Nino Vincenzo Verde,
A new role mining framework to elicit business roles and to mitigate enterprise risk,
Decision Support Systems,
Volume 50, Issue 4,
2011,
Pages 715-731,
ISSN 0167-9236,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dss.2010.08.022.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167923610001466)
Abstract: Role-based access control (RBAC) allows to effectively manage the risk derived from granting access to resources, provided that designed roles are business-driven. Role mining represents an essential tool for role engineers, but existing techniques are not able to elicit roles with an associated clear business meaning. Hence, it is difficult to mitigate risk, to simplify business governance, and to ensure compliance throughout the enterprise. To elicit meaningful roles, we propose a methodology where data to analyze are decomposed into smaller subsets according to the provided business information. We introduce two indices, minability and similarity, that drive the decomposition process by providing the expected complexity to find roles with business meaning. The proposed methodology is rooted on a sound theoretical framework. Moreover, experiments on real enterprise data support its effectiveness.
Keywords: RBAC; Role engineering; Role mining; Risk management; Clustering coefficient

Arnold Schneider,
Analysis of professional standards and research findings to develop decision aids for reliance on internal auditing,
Research in Accounting Regulation,
Volume 22, Issue 2,
2010,
Pages 96-106,
ISSN 1052-0457,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.racreg.2010.07.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1052045710000226)
Abstract: This paper analyzes professional standards and research findings pertaining to external auditors’ reliance on internal auditing and develops decision aids for reliance. The paper obtains various characteristics relating to the evaluation of internal audit competence, objectivity, and work performed, as well as other non-internal audit factors that impact reliance. These characteristics and factors are integrated into decision aids for reliance on internal auditing.
Keywords: Internal auditing; Reliance on internal auditing; Decision aids

Yahui Lu, Li Zhang, Jiaguang Sun,
Task-activity based access control for process collaboration environments,
Computers in Industry,
Volume 60, Issue 6,
2009,
Pages 403-415,
ISSN 0166-3615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2009.02.009.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166361509000529)
Abstract: Collaborative systems enable organizations to communicate, interact and cooperate with each other to achieve their business goals. Access control is an important security mechanism for organizations to protect their resources in collaborative environments. Many access control models and mechanisms have been proposed for collaborative systems. However, under the new collaborative paradigm based on Web services and workflow technologies, some specific access control requirements should be addressed to support the various process collaboration patterns. In this paper, we present a task-activity based access control (TABAC) model for process collaboration environments. In TABAC, business process is composed by activities and dynamic permissions are related to tasks. Task permissions can be dynamically assigned to processes during the interaction of activities. A SOAP based interaction protocol is also proposed to transmit task permissions between processes. Finally, we describe the implementation of TABAC model in workflow management system which conforms to the XACML and WS-BPEL specifications.
Keywords: Processcollaboration; Web service; Workflow; Access control; XACML

Ivan Milenkovic,
Adapting organisations for role-based access control measures,
Computer Fraud & Security,
Volume 2008, Issue 11,
2008,
Pages 14-18,
ISSN 1361-3723,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-3723(08)70164-7.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361372308701647)
Abstract: Role-based access control should be at the heart of your governance, risk management, and compliance (GRC) strategy. Ivan Milenkovic of Atos Origin discusses the benefits, implementation risks of role-based access control and the organisational changes required in order to successfully implement it. He also gives advice on building the right business case and how to select correct methodology, frameworks, and solutions. This article provides guidelines based on extensive experience and focuses equally on processes and technology, since success is dependent on both. Today's mantra for information security is governance, risk management, and compliance (GRC). This ideal model, if implemented correctly, brings significant benefits to the security position of almost any organisation.

Andy Jones,
The changing nature of malicious attacks,
Computer Fraud & Security,
Volume 2008, Issue 6,
2008,
Pages 15-17,
ISSN 1361-3723,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-3723(08)70100-3.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361372308701003)
Abstract: Andy Jones takes a look at the changing threat horizon.

Jinwei Hu, Ruixuan Li, Zhengding Lu, Jianfeng Lu, Xiaopu Ma,
RAR: A role-and-risk based flexible framework for secure collaboration,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 27, Issue 5,
2011,
Pages 574-586,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2010.09.008.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X10001780)
Abstract: Collaboration among virtual organizations enables domains to effectively share resources. However, it also opens ways for several security and privacy breaches; the problem becomes severe along with the increasing complexity and dynamics of grid environments. As such, in this paper, we propose a flexible secure collaboration framework: called RAR (Role-And-Risk). We introduce the architecture of RAR, and two major components of RAR. The first component is for generating inter-domain role mappings (IDRM) as a basis for collaboration. We study the complexity of IDRM while taking the separation of duty constraints and administrative cost into account; it turns out to be intractable for most cases. RAR addresses IDRM related problems by reducing them to well-known problems (e.g., the satisfiability problem SAT), which have been studied for decades and various mature solvers exist in literature. On the other hand, to deal with the dynamics and uncertainty of distributed environments, we employ the notion of risk to monitor and manage the security threat induced by collaboration. RAR’s flexibility lies in the tunable interoperability and the use of risk for timely monitoring users’ accesses.
Keywords: Access control; Secure collaboration; Role mapping; Risk

Shadi Aljawarneh,
A web engineering security methodology for e-learning systems,
Network Security,
Volume 2011, Issue 3,
2011,
Pages 12-15,
ISSN 1353-4858,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-4858(11)70026-5.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353485811700265)
Abstract: There is no one-stop shop protection method that can meet all the security requirements and design specifications of new or existing distributed e-learning systems. However, a novel web engineering security methodology, based on software engineering principles, could help to secure these systems. In this proposed methodology, security needs to be built into all phases of the System Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Many universities now employ e-learning systems, but security is often an afterthought. Their ICT organisations still use ad hoc security tools such as firewalls and anti-virus software that are not capable of offering sufficient security. This is because firewalls and anti-virus cannot distinguish between an original HTTP conversation and faked or compromised connections. Dr Shadi Aljawarneh believes security should be an intrinsic part of the System Development Life Cycle (SDLC), and presents a web engineering security methodology, based on software engineering principles, to secure distributed e-learning systems.

Ángel García-Crespo, Juan Miguel Gómez-Berbís, Ricardo Colomo-Palacios, Giner Alor-Hernández,
SecurOntology: A semantic web access control framework,
Computer Standards & Interfaces,
Volume 33, Issue 1,
2011,
Pages 42-49,
ISSN 0920-5489,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csi.2009.10.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920548909000798)
Abstract: Security and privacy are key concerns on the Internet. Policies representing resource access based on knowledge-oriented descriptions have gained momentum with the emergence of semantic technologies. Traditional access control frameworks were syntactic and error prone, lacking the necessary expressivity and efficiency of a solution where soundness and completeness of the underlying logics in access control descriptions could be critical to harness their potential. In this paper, SecurOntology is presented. SecurOntology encompasses a three-fold strategy: an ontology for access control, a logical declarative framework and a software architecture as a proof-of-concept of the advantages of this solution.
Keywords: Security; Semantic Web; Web access control; Description Logic; Rules

Dario Forte,
War & Peace in Cyberspace: Internal fraud — when system administrators leave,
Computer Fraud & Security,
Volume 2008, Issue 10,
2008,
Pages 18-20,
ISSN 1361-3723,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-3723(08)70151-9.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361372308701519)
Abstract: It is true that we live in a strange world, but the recurrence of some security incidents borders on the incredible. Naturally, employees who are fired from their jobs tend to be unhappy. But a recent survey of 300 Australian IT administrators found that a whopping majority would go so far as to steal company data if they were fired.1 According to the survey, 88% of IT administrators said openly that they would take company secrets with them on departure.

Andy Jones,
The evolution of attack,
Infosecurity,
Volume 5, Issue 3,
2008,
Pages 30-31,
ISSN 1754-4548,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1754-4548(08)70045-7.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1754454808700457)
Abstract: Andy Jones, senior research consultant at the Information Security Forum, analyses the changing threat horizon and comes to the conclusionthat some things never change

Ruth W. Epps, Cynthia P. Guthrie,
Sarbanes-Oxley 404 material weaknesses and discretionary accruals,
Accounting Forum,
Volume 34, Issue 2,
2010,
Pages 67-75,
ISSN 0155-9982,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accfor.2008.11.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0155998208000768)
Abstract: This study investigates whether having a Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 [SOX 404] material weakness allows managers of these companies to manipulate earnings to a greater extent using discretionary accruals than managers of companies with no SOX 404 material weaknesses. The study focuses on a sample of 218 companies that disclosed at least one material weakness in internal control in their 2004 SEC filings. The discretionary accruals of companies with material weaknesses are paired with companies with no material weaknesses reported in their 10K filings during the same time period. We examine the relationship of reported SOX 404 weaknesses with the behavior of discretionary accruals for the overall sample of companies and for discretionary accruals partitioned according to the greatest magnitudes, both positive and negative. The accruals are categorized into three groups: (1) high negative discretionary accruals, (2) high positive discretionary accruals and (3) low discretionary accruals. Our finding for the entire sample of 436 companies indicates that the presence of SOX 404 material weaknesses has a moderate significant negative effect (income-decreasing) on discretionary accruals. However, when the accruals are stratified into high positive, negative and low accruals, the overall findings of the research indicate that the existence of material weaknesses allows for greater manipulation of earnings using discretionary accruals regardless of the direction – income-increasing or income-decreasing.
Keywords: Discretionary accruals; Internal control; Material weakness; Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404

Katsuyuki Nakano, Masahiko Hirao,
Collaborative activity with business partners for improvement of product environmental performance using LCA,
Journal of Cleaner Production,
Volume 19, Issue 11,
2011,
Pages 1189-1197,
ISSN 0959-6526,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2011.03.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0959652611000837)
Abstract: Collaborative activities with business partners have potential to improve environmental performance of product and life cycle assessment (LCA) is an essential technique to implement eco-design of product and production process. However, collection of LCA data from supply chain is a major issue for LCA practitioners. We propose a Supply Chain Collaboration Model (SCCM), which is a framework for collecting producer-specific LCA data from business partners and for promoting improvement activity of product environmental performance. We demonstrate the practicability of the SCCM using three case studies. In each case study, two or three partner companies organized a product improvement project and carried out process analysis techniques such as LCA and material flow cost accounting (MFCA). As a result, improvement activities from the economical standpoint could provide an incentive for business partners to collect LCA data, and thus the SCCM is an effective framework for eco-design.
Keywords: Life cycle assessment; Collaboration; Data collection; Eco-design; Supply chain

Graham Smith,
Countering datacentre security pressures,
Network Security,
Volume 2010, Issue 8,
2010,
Pages 15-17,
ISSN 1353-4858,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-4858(10)70106-9.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353485810701069)
Abstract: Enterprises are under relentless pressure to protect their data, arguably their most precious asset. They are constantly taking steps to prevent intrusion, keep up with the latest security threats and countermeasures, and beef up physical security. These measures incur a considerable cost, especially when you take into account the skills and work hours required to manage it all in-house.

Mieke Jans, Jan Martijn van der Werf, Nadine Lybaert, Koen Vanhoof,
A business process mining application for internal transaction fraud mitigation,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 38, Issue 10,
2011,
Pages 13351-13359,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2011.04.159.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417411006865)
Abstract: Corporate fraud these days represents a huge cost to our economy. In the paper we address one specific type of corporate fraud, internal transaction fraud. Given the omnipresence of stored history logs, the field of process mining rises as an adequate answer to mitigating internal transaction fraud. Process mining diagnoses processes by mining event logs. This way we can expose opportunities to commit fraud in the followed process. In this paper we report on an application of process mining at a case company. The procurement process was selected as example for internal transaction fraud mitigation. The results confirm the contribution process mining can provide to business practice.
Keywords: Internal fraud; Transaction fraud; Process mining

Gilbert Babin, Waiman Cheung,
A Metadatabase-supported shell for distributed processing and systems integration,
Knowledge-Based Systems,
Volume 21, Issue 7,
2008,
Pages 672-680,
ISSN 0950-7051,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2008.03.024.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950705108000737)
Abstract: Advances in computer networking and the globalization of economy have forced enterprises to adopt a distributed structure, particularly for their information systems. It is important to provide enterprises with integration tools which consolidate the information available in these distributed systems. We refer to such systems as Distributed Enterprise Information Systems (DEIS). A number of integration approaches can be found in the literature which achieve interoperability at the application level via an integrated schema or a common manipulation language. Other systems, such as ERPs, realize integration by imposing a central data model and uniform business processes. All these approaches are imposing certain logical data structure or even physical database to the local systems, which demand changes at the local level. In this paper, we describe the detailed architecture of a Metadatabase-supported shell enabling DEIS. Taking advantage of metadata, the approach presented guaranties flexibility, scalability, while preserving local autonomy.
Keywords: Metadatabase; Distributed Enterprise Information Systems; Systems integration

Sanjay Goel, Vicki Chen,
Can business process reengineering lead to security vulnerabilities: Analyzing the reengineered process,
International Journal of Production Economics,
Volume 115, Issue 1,
2008,
Pages 104-112,
ISSN 0925-5273,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpe.2008.05.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925527308001485)
Abstract: Digitization, while a boon for business productivity, carries inherent liability for information security. During the last few decades, companies have reengineered business processes on the back of digital data and computer networks. Recently, companies are beginning to realize that increased accessibility, and productivity, carries a hidden cost of making the data more vulnerable to security breaches. It makes intuitive sense to incorporate information security into strategic decision-making during business process reengineering. However, the intricate and complex nature of information security obscures the return on security investment, making companies reluctant to invest in security policies or technology. Consequentially, companies are often forced to suboptimally retrofit security into their business processes in response to security breaches. The case study presents an information security risk analysis proactively conducted at General Electric Energy's Wind Division after the business process reengineering of their product data storage and sharing process. The goal of the study was to identify the security risks in the redesigned process using a structured matrix-based risk analysis approach that links the assets of the organization at risk to security controls.
Keywords: Security; Risk analysis; Information assurance; Business process reengineering (BPR); Six sigma; General electric

Richard Walters,
Managing privileged user activity in the datacentre,
Network Security,
Volume 2010, Issue 11,
2010,
Pages 6-10,
ISSN 1353-4858,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-4858(10)70134-3.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353485810701343)
Abstract: The benefits of cloud computing have been well documented, as have the security risks associated with entrusting your data to a third party. Although there have been many definitions of what the ‘cloud’ entails, whether your third-party provider is offering software as a service, platforms as a service or infrastructure as a service, inside that cloud is a physical datacentre, run by human beings with privileged access to servers. So we need to consider the management of these privileged users’ activities. Richard Walters of Overtis looks at the risks posed by trusted users in the datacentre, lists the questions that CISOs need to ask before placing data in the cloud and outlines best practice for proactive governance of physical access to servers in the datacentre.

Mark Strembeck, Jan Mendling,
Modeling process-related RBAC models with extended UML activity models,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 53, Issue 5,
2011,
Pages 456-483,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2010.11.015.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584910002181)
Abstract: Context
Business processes are an important source for the engineering of customized software systems and are constantly gaining attention in the area of software engineering as well as in the area of information and system security. While the need to integrate processes and role-based access control (RBAC) models has been repeatedly identified in research and practice, standard process modeling languages do not provide corresponding language elements.
Objective
In this paper, we are concerned with the definition of an integrated approach for modeling processes and process-related RBAC models – including roles, role hierarchies, statically and dynamically mutual exclusive tasks, as well as binding of duty constraints on tasks.
Method
We specify a formal metamodel for process-related RBAC models. Based on this formal model, we define a domain-specific extension for a standard modeling language.
Results
Our formal metamodel is generic and can be used to extend arbitrary process modeling languages. To demonstrate our approach, we present a corresponding extension for UML2 activity models. The name of our extension is Business Activities. Moreover, we implemented a library and runtime engine that can manage Business Activity runtime models and enforce the different policies and constraints in a software system.
Conclusion
The definition of process-related RBAC models at the modeling-level is an important prerequisite for the thorough implementation and enforcement of corresponding policies and constraints in a software system. We identified the need for modeling support of process-related RBAC models from our experience in real-world role engineering projects and case studies. The Business Activities approach presented in this paper is successfully applied in role engineering projects.
Keywords: Process modeling; Role-based access control; Role engineering; Systems modeling; UML

Matthias Weidlich, Artem Polyvyanyy, Nirmit Desai, Jan Mendling, Mathias Weske,
Process compliance analysis based on behavioural profiles,
Information Systems,
Volume 36, Issue 7,
2011,
Pages 1009-1025,
ISSN 0306-4379,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2011.04.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306437911000536)
Abstract: Process compliance measurement is getting increasing attention in companies due to stricter legal requirements and market pressure for operational excellence. In order to judge on compliance of the business processing, the degree of behavioural deviation of a case, i.e., an observed execution sequence, is quantified with respect to a process model (referred to as fitness, or recall). Recently, different compliance measures have been proposed. Still, nearly all of them are grounded on state-based techniques and the trace equivalence criterion, in particular. As a consequence, these approaches have to deal with the state explosion problem. In this paper, we argue that a behavioural abstraction may be leveraged to measure the compliance of a process log – a collection of cases. To this end, we utilise causal behavioural profiles that capture the behavioural characteristics of process models and cases, and can be computed efficiently. We propose different compliance measures based on these profiles, discuss the impact of noise in process logs on our measures, and show how diagnostic information on non-compliance is derived. As a validation, we report on findings of applying our approach in a case study with an international service provider.
Keywords: Process compliance; Compliance measurement; Log conformance; Root cause analysis

George R. Aldhizer, Dale R. Martin, James F. Cotter,
Do markets react to required and voluntary disclosures associated with auditor realignments?,
Advances in Accounting,
Volume 25, Issue 1,
2009,
Pages 1-12,
ISSN 0882-6110,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.adiac.2009.02.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0882611009000030)
Abstract: This manuscript investigates whether required and voluntary Form 8-K (Item 4.01) auditor realignment disclosures in 2004 and 2005 convey information content to investors in a post SOX era. Unlike prior research, our results indicate that internal control material weakness and non-reliance on management representation disclosures convey negative information content, while audit scope limitation, earnings restatement and client–auditor disagreement disclosures do not convey information content in a post SOX era. Also, unlike prior research, voluntary disclosures such as fee disputes do not convey information content. Similar to prior research, auditor resignation disclosures convey information content. Our results also indicate that other required disclosures such as when an auditor realignment occurs after a company has received a going concern opinion and when a company switches to a larger audit firm (e.g., from a local/regional firm to a Big 4 firm) are associated with positive CARs.
Keywords: Controls; Cumulative abnormal returns (CARs); Disagreements; Earnings restatement; 8-K; Going concern; Non-reliance; Required disclosures; Resignation; Verifiable; Voluntary disclosures

Klaus Julisch, Christophe Suter, Thomas Woitalla, Olaf Zimmermann,
Compliance by design – Bridging the chasm between auditors and IT architects,
Computers & Security,
Volume 30, Issues 6–7,
2011,
Pages 410-426,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2011.03.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404811000514)
Abstract: System and process auditors assure – from an information processing perspective – the correctness and integrity of the data that is aggregated in a company’s financial statements. To do so, they assess whether a company’s business processes and information systems process financial data correctly. The audit process is a complex endeavor that in practice has to rely on simplifying assumptions. These simplifying assumptions mainly result from the need to restrict the audit scope and to focus it on the major risks. This article describes a generalized audit process. According to our experience with this process, there is a risk that material deficiencies remain undiscovered when said simplifying assumptions are not satisfied. To address this risk of deficiencies, the article compiles thirteen control patterns, which – according to our experience – are particularly suited to help information systems satisfy the simplifying assumptions. As such, use of these proven control patterns makes information systems easier to audit and IT architects can use them to build systems that meet audit requirements by design. Additionally, the practices and advice offered in this interdisciplinary article help bridge the gap between the architects and auditors of information systems and show either role how to benefit from an understanding of the other role’s terminology, techniques, and general work approach.
Keywords: Information systems audit; CAVR; Compliance; Security architecture; Patterns; Service-oriented architecture; Business processes; Enterprise applications

Giri Sivanesan,
The human factor in espionage,
Computer Fraud & Security,
Volume 2011, Issue 2,
2011,
Pages 15-16,
ISSN 1361-3723,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-3723(11)70018-5.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361372311700185)
Abstract: People will always be the weakest link in the battle to protect corporate information and data from attackers. Attacks by hackers on businesses are increasingly being committed with similar modus operandi to corporate espionage carried out by foreign states and state-sponsored attackers. As the capabilities of security technology improve, hackers are now targeting individuals to get at the electronic information they want. This raises an intriguing mix of problems and issues for today's corporate security managers.

Qingfeng He, Annie I. Antón,
Requirements-based Access Control Analysis and Policy Specification (ReCAPS),
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 51, Issue 6,
2009,
Pages 993-1009,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2008.11.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584908001699)
Abstract: Access control (AC) is a mechanism for achieving confidentiality and integrity in software systems. Access control policies (ACPs) express rules concerning who can access what information, and under what conditions. ACP specification is not an explicit part of the software development process and is often isolated from requirements analysis activities, leaving systems vulnerable to security breaches because policies are specified without ensuring compliance with system requirements. In this paper, we present the Requirements-based Access Control Analysis and Policy Specification (ReCAPS) method for deriving and specifying ACPs, and discuss three validation efforts. The method integrates policy specification into the software development process, ensures consistency across software artifacts, and provides prescriptive guidance for how to specify ACPs. It also improves the quality of requirements specifications and system designs by clarifying ambiguities and resolving conflicts across these artifacts during the analysis, making a significant step towards ensuring that policies are enforced in a manner consistent with a system’s requirements specifications. To date, the method has been applied within the context of four operational systems. Additionally, we have conducted an empirical study to evaluate its usefulness and effectiveness. A software tool, the Security and Privacy Requirements Analysis Tool (SPRAT), was developed to support ReCAPS analysis activities.
Keywords: Requirements analysis; Security; Access control

David Ferraiolo, Vijayalakshmi Atluri, Serban Gavrila,
The Policy Machine: A novel architecture and framework for access control policy specification and enforcement,
Journal of Systems Architecture,
Volume 57, Issue 4,
2011,
Pages 412-424,
ISSN 1383-7621,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sysarc.2010.04.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1383762110000251)
Abstract: The ability to control access to sensitive data in accordance with policy is perhaps the most fundamental security requirement. Despite over four decades of security research, the limited ability for existing access control mechanisms to generically enforce policy persists. While researchers, practitioners and policy makers have specified a large variety of access control policies to address real-world security issues, only a relatively small subset of these policies can be enforced through off-the-shelf technology, and even a smaller subset can be enforced by any one mechanism. In this paper, we propose an access control framework, referred to as the Policy Machine (PM) that fundamentally changes the way policy is expressed and enforced. Employing PM helps in building high assurance enforcement mechanisms in three respects. First, only a relatively small piece of the overall access control mechanism needs to be included in the host system (e.g., an operating system or application). This significantly reduces the amount of code that needs to be trusted. Second, it is possible to enforce the precise policies of resource owners, without compromise on enforcement or resorting to less effective administrative procedures. Third, the PM is capable of generically imposing confinement constraints that can be used to prevent leakage of information to unauthorized principals within the context of a variety of policies to include the commonly implemented Discretionary Access Control and Role-Based Access Control models.
Keywords: Security policy enforcement framework; Policy Machine; Access control

Deqing Zou, Ligang He, Hai Jin, Xueguang Chen,
CRBAC: Imposing multi-grained constraints on the RBAC model in the multi-application environment,
Journal of Network and Computer Applications,
Volume 32, Issue 2,
2009,
Pages 402-411,
ISSN 1084-8045,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2008.02.015.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1084804508000520)
Abstract: Interactions between resources as well as services are one of the fundamental characteristics in the distributed multi-application environments. In such environments, attribute-based access control (ABAC) mechanisms are gaining in popularity while the role-based access control (RBAC) mechanism is widely accepted as a general mechanism for authorization management. This paper proposes a new access control model, CRBAC, which aims to combine the advantages of RBAC and ABAC, and integrates all kinds of constraints into the RBAC model. Unlike other work in this area, which only incorporates one or a few particular attribute constraints into RBAC, this paper analyses and abstracts the generic properties of the attribute constraints imposed on authorization systems. Based on these analyses and generalization, two constraints templates are presented, called authorization mapping constraint template and behaviour constraint template. The former template is able to automate the user-role and role-permission mapping, while the latter is used to restrict the behaviours of the authorization entities. The attribute constraints are classified into these two templates. Moreover, the state mechanism is introduced to build up the constraints among the statuses of the entities, and reflect the outcomes of the authorization control as well. Based on the presented templates and the state mechanism, the execution model is developed. A use case is proposed to show the authorization process of our proposed model. The extensive analyses are conducted to show its multi-grained constraints by comparing with other models.
Keywords: RBAC; Attribute constraint; Authorization template; Authorization state

Alessandro Colantonio, Roberto Di Pietro, Alberto Ocello, Nino Vincenzo Verde,
Taming role mining complexity in RBAC,
Computers & Security,
Volume 29, Issue 5,
2010,
Pages 548-564,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2010.01.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404810000027)
Abstract: In this paper we address the problem of reducing the role mining complexity in RBAC systems. To this aim, we propose a three steps methodology: first, we associate a weight to roles; second, we identify user-permission assignments that cannot belong to roles with a weight exceeding a given threshold; and third, we restrict the role-finding problem to user-permission assignments identified in the second step. We formally show—the proofs of our results are rooted in graph theory—that this methodology allows role engineers for the elicitation of stable candidate roles, by contextually simplifying the role selection task. Efficient algorithms to implement our strategy are also described. Further, we discuss practical applications of our approach. Finally, we tested our methodology on real dataset. Results achieved confirm both the viability of our proposal and the analytical findings.
Keywords: Role-based access control; Stable roles; Clustering coefficient; Administration cost minimization; Role mining complexity

Zhengxing Huang, W.M.P. van der Aalst, Xudong Lu, Huilong Duan,
Reinforcement learning based resource allocation in business process management,
Data & Knowledge Engineering,
Volume 70, Issue 1,
2011,
Pages 127-145,
ISSN 0169-023X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.datak.2010.09.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169023X1000114X)
Abstract: Efficient resource allocation is a complex and dynamic task in business process management. Although a wide variety of mechanisms are emerging to support resource allocation in business process execution, these approaches do not consider performance optimization. This paper introduces a mechanism in which the resource allocation optimization problem is modeled as Markov decision processes and solved using reinforcement learning. The proposed mechanism observes its environment to learn appropriate policies which optimize resource allocation in business process execution. The experimental results indicate that the proposed approach outperforms well known heuristic or hand-coded strategies, and may improve the current state of business process management.
Keywords: Resource allocation; Business process; Markov decision process; Reinforcement learning; Q-learning

Jaime A. Pavlich-Mariscal, Steven A. Demurjian, Laurent D. Michel,
A framework of composable access control features: Preserving separation of access control concerns from models to code,
Computers & Security,
Volume 29, Issue 3,
2010,
Pages 350-379,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2009.11.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404809001382)
Abstract: Modeling of security policies, along with their realization in code, must be an integral part of the software development process, to achieve an acceptable level of security for a software application. Among all of the security concerns (e.g. authentication, auditing, access control, confidentiality, etc.), this paper addresses the incorporation of access control into software. The approach is to separate access control concerns from the rest of the design. To assist designers to visualize access control policies separated from non-security concerns, this paper proposes a set of access control diagrams, i.e., extensions to the UML to represent three main access control models: role-based access control (RBAC), mandatory access control (MAC), and discretionary access control (DAC). To better adapt to changing requirements, and assist designers to customize access control policies, this paper proposes a set of access control features, i.e., small components that realize specific capabilities of access control models. Designers can select the features they require, and compose them to yield different access control policies. When transitioning into code, the main focus is to preserve separation of access control concerns. This paper describes an approach to realize access control diagrams and features in code through structure-preserving mappings, describes three different approaches to enforce access control in code, and evaluates the way each of them separate access control from other concerns.
Keywords: Access controls; UML; Separation of concerns; Software engineering; Model-driven development

Stefan K. Stafrace, Nick Antonopoulos,
Military tactics in agent-based sinkhole attack detection for wireless ad hoc networks,
Computer Communications,
Volume 33, Issue 5,
2010,
Pages 619-638,
ISSN 0140-3664,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comcom.2009.11.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140366409002953)
Abstract: Wireless Ad hoc Networks (WAHNs) offer a challenging environment for conventional Intrusion Detection Systems (IDSs). In particular WAHN have a dynamic topology, intermittent connectivity, resource constrained device nodes and possibly high node churn. Researchers over the past years have encouraged the use of agent-based IDS to overcome these challenges. In this work we propose the use of military tactics to optimise the operations of agent-based IDS for WAHN. We design an agent framework modeled over a military command structure and an agent behavioural model, which employs adapted military tactics to police routes, and detect intruders in the network. The tactical agents follow a risk-based approach such that the frequency of patrols is directly proportional to the risk factor of the route. Consequently, resources are conserved without impacting the effectiveness of the IDS. We demonstrate the proof of concept through a case study. In this study, we implement a simulation-based model of our solution to detect and recover from a Sinkhole attack in a Wireless Sensor Network (WSN), using the Ad hoc On Demand Distance Vector (AODV) as routing protocol. We evaluate the proof of concept in terms of the detection precision, data loss incurred from the attack and the agent overheads due to mobility and communication.
Keywords: Wireless ad hoc networks; Agent-based intrusion detection; Tactical agents; Military tactics; Security

Kuheli Roy Sarkar,
Assessing insider threats to information security using technical, behavioural and organisational measures,
Information Security Technical Report,
Volume 15, Issue 3,
2010,
Pages 112-133,
ISSN 1363-4127,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.istr.2010.11.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1363412710000488)
Abstract: The UK government took a bruising in the headlines (Sep 2008) after a Home Office contractor lost a USB stick containing unencrypted data on all 84,000 prisoners in England and Wales. As a result, the Home Office terminated the £1.5 million contract with the management consultancy firm. The world woke up to the largest attempted bank fraud ever when the UK’s National Hi-Tech Crime Unit foiled the world’s largest potential bank robbery in March 2005. With the help of the security supervisor, thieves masquerading as cleaning staff installed hardware keystroke loggers on computers within the London branch of a Japanese bank, to steal £220m. It is indeed sobering to imagine that any organisation could fall victim to such events and the damage an insider can do. The consulting firm lost the contract worth £1.5 million due to a small mistake by an employee. The London branch of the Japanese Bank would have lost £220 million had not the crime been foiled. Insider threat is a reality. Insiders commit fraud or steal sensitive information when motivated by money or revenge. Well-meaning employees can compromise the security of an organisation with their overzealousness in getting their job done. Every organisation has a varied mix of employees, consultants, management, partners and complex infrastructure and that makes handling insider threats a daunting challenge. With insider attacks, organisations face potential damage through loss of revenue, loss of reputation, loss of intellectual property or even loss of human life. The insider threat problem is more elusive and perplexing than any other threat. Assessing the insider threat is the first step to determine the likelihood of any insider attack. Technical solutions do not suffice since insider threats are fundamentally a people issue. Therefore, a three-pronged approach - technological, behavioural and organisational assessment is essential in facilitating the prediction of insider threats and pre-empt any insider attack thus improving the organization’s security, survivability, and resiliency in light of insider threats.

John E. McEnroe,
CFOs’ and public accountants’ perceptions of material weaknesses in internal control areas as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley act,
Research in Accounting Regulation,
Volume 21, Issue 1,
2009,
Pages 48-55,
ISSN 1052-0457,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.racreg.2008.11.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1052045708000040)
Abstract: One of the most controversial aspects of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOA) is related to Section 404, which requires management to assess the entity’s internal controls, and then its independent auditor to attest and report on management’s assessment. The auditing standard governing this requirement was promulgated by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB). Its title is Auditing Standard (AS) No. 2, An Audit of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Performed in Conjunction with an Audit of Financial Statements [Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) (2004). An audit of internal control over financial reporting performed in conjunction with an audit of financial statements. Auditing Standard No. 2, Washington, DC: PCAOB]. AS No. 2 requires, among other things, that management must disclose any “material weaknesses” in internal controls. However, absent any guidance other than definitions from the PCAOB, management and independent auditors are left to their own judgment to define and recognize “material weakness in internal control” or “significant deficiency” while implementing AS No. 2. The research question, then, becomes to what extent, if any, are weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting consistently assessed, recognized and agreed upon by both parties? Or does their professional judgment and point of view cause different perceptions? Most of the Section 404 research has focused on the characteristics of the material weaknesses disclosed (and the capital market or other impacts of reported material weaknesses). This study, in contrast, is behavioral in context, and examines the perceptions of CFOs and CPAs as to whether they believe an internal control material weakness exists under four independent scenarios. The results indicate that the CPAs were significantly more conservative in their assessments in two of the four cases.
Keywords: Material weakness; Internal control; Section 404; AS No. 2

Dizza Beimel, Mor Peleg,
Using OWL and SWRL to represent and reason with situation-based access control policies,
Data & Knowledge Engineering,
Volume 70, Issue 6,
2011,
Pages 596-615,
ISSN 0169-023X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.datak.2011.03.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169023X11000334)
Abstract: Access control is a central problem in confidentiality management, in particular in the healthcare domain, where many stakeholders require access to patients' health records. Situation-Based Access Control (SitBAC) is a conceptual model that allows for modeling healthcare scenarios of data-access requests; thus it can be used to formulate data-access policies, where health organizations can specify their regulations involving access to patients' data according to the context of the request. The model's central concept is the Situation, a formal representation of a patient's data-access scenario. In this paper, we present the SitBAC knowledge framework, a formal healthcare-oriented, context-based access-control framework that makes it possible to represent and implement SitBAC as a knowledge model along with an associated inference method, using OWL and SWRL. Within the SitBAC knowledge framework, scenarios of data access are represented as formal Web Ontology language (OWL)-based Situation classes, formulating data-access rule classes. A set of data-access rule classes makes up the organization's data-access policy. An incoming data-access request, represented as an individual of an OWL-based Situation class, is evaluated by the inference method against the data-access policy to produce an ‘approved/denied’ response. The method uses a Description Logics (DL)-reasoner and a Semantic Web Rule Language (SWRL) engine during the inference process. The DL reasoner is used for knowledge classification and for real-time realization of the incoming data-access request as a member of an existing Situation class to infer the appropriate response. The SWRL engine is used to infer new knowledge regarding the incoming data-access requests, which are required for the realization process. We evaluated the ability of the SitBAC knowledge framework to provide correct responses by representing and reasoning with real-life healthcare scenarios.
Keywords: Access control; Conceptual model; Knowledge model; Knowledge framework; OWL; SWRL

Hans Weigand, Willem-Jan van den Heuvel, Marcel Hiel,
Business policy compliance in service-oriented systems,
Information Systems,
Volume 36, Issue 4,
2011,
Pages 791-807,
ISSN 0306-4379,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2010.12.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306437910001377)
Abstract: As business policies and environments change constantly, there is a need for service-oriented systems to be compliant, yet adaptive. The solution proposed in this paper is based on a clear architectural separation of policy specification, enforcement strategy and realization. Policy compliance is worked out as a rule transformation process mediating between the business policy language SBVR and Condition-Action (CA) rules. The solution supports adaptation caused by business policy evolution as well as adaptation caused by service evolution. In addition, the paper describes a novel truly service-oriented way of implementing compliance management and enforcement of business policies drawing on Adaptive Service Oriented Architecture (ASOA).
Keywords: Rule independence; SBVR; Enforcement strategy; CA-rules; Adaptive services

Fabian Libeau,
Automating security events management,
Network Security,
Volume 2008, Issue 12,
2008,
Pages 6-9,
ISSN 1353-4858,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-4858(08)70139-9.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353485808701399)
Abstract: Millions of security events are generated daily from network devices, operating systems, applications, and even security solutions themselves. These events are typically siloed within files and databases or sent via syslog. Much attention is paid within organisations to preventing security events, but some incidents will inevitably still occur. When this happens, organisations must be prepared with an events management strategy. The more that this can be automated, the better.

Xin Ye, Xinghua Bing, Chao Zuo,
The reduction and deadlock detection of cross-organizational business process based on Pi-calculus,
Procedia Engineering,
Volume 15,
2011,
Pages 3487-3494,
ISSN 1877-7058,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.proeng.2011.08.653.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877705811021540)
Abstract: Deadlock detection of large-scale and complicated cross-organizational business process is an important part of business process analysis. Due to the strong ability of algebraic deduction of Pi-calculus, it is suitable for the modelling and analysis of cross-organizational business process. Therefore Pi-calculus is chosen as the modelling and analysis means for cross-organizational business process in this paper. Furthermore, on the basis of Pi-calculus, the deadlock verification method of process is proposed and the formal descriptions of several typical reduction rules are presented. Finally, a case study is presented, and the result shows that the proposed method can achieve the deadlock detection of large-scale and complicated cross-organizational business process.
Keywords: cross-organizational business process; Pi-calculus; deadlock; reduction rule

A. Abou El Kalam, Y. Deswarte, A. Baïna, M. Kaâniche,
PolyOrBAC: A security framework for Critical Infrastructures,
International Journal of Critical Infrastructure Protection,
Volume 2, Issue 4,
2009,
Pages 154-169,
ISSN 1874-5482,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijcip.2009.08.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1874548209000262)
Abstract: Due to physical and logical vulnerabilities, a critical infrastructure (CI) can encounter failures of various degrees of severity, and since there are many interdependencies between CIs, simple failures can have dramatic consequences on the users. In this paper, we mainly focus on malicious threats that might affect the information and communication system that controls the Critical Infrastructure, i.e., the Critical Information Infrastructure (CII). To address the security challenges that are specific of CIIs, we propose a collaborative access control framework called PolyOrBAC. This approach offers each organization taking part in the CII the capacity of collaborating with the other ones, while maintaining a control on its resources and on its internal security policy. The interactions between organizations participating in the CII are implemented through web services (WS), and for each WS a contract is signed between the service-provider organization and the service-user organization. The contract describes the WS functions and parameters, the liability of each party and the security rules controlling the interactions. At runtime, the compliance of all interactions with these security rules is checked. Every deviation from the signed contracts triggers an alarm, the concerned parties are notified and audits can be used as evidence for sanctioning the party responsible for the deviation. Our approach is illustrated by a practical scenario, based on real emergency actions in an electric power grid infrastructure, and a simulation test bed has been implemented to animate this scenario and experiment with its security issues.
Keywords: Critical Infrastructure; Security; Access control policies and models; Collaboration; Interoperability

Samrat Mondal, Shamik Sural, Vijayalakshmi Atluri,
Security analysis of GTRBAC and its variants using model checking,
Computers & Security,
Volume 30, Issues 2–3,
2011,
Pages 128-147,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2010.09.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404810000817)
Abstract: Security analysis is a formal verification technique to ascertain certain desirable guarantees on the access control policy specification. Given a set of access control policies, a general safety requirement in such a system is to determine whether a desirable property is satisfied in all the reachable states. Such an analysis calls for the use of formal verification techniques. While formal analysis on traditional Role Based Access Control (RBAC) has been done to some extent, recent extensions to RBAC lack such an analysis. In this paper, we consider the temporal RBAC extensions and propose a formal technique using timed automata to perform security analysis by analyzing both safety and liveness properties. Using safety properties one ensures that something bad never happens while liveness properties show that some good state is also achieved. GTRBAC is a well accepted generalized temporal RBAC model which can handle a wide range of temporal constraints while specifying different access control policies. Analysis of such a model involves a process of mapping a GTRBAC based system into a state transition system. Different reduction rules are proposed to simplify the modeling process depending upon the constraints supported by the system. The effect of different constraints on the modeling process is also studied.
Keywords: Computation tree logic; GTRBAC; Timed automata; Verification; Safety property; Liveness property

Jun-Cheol Jeon, Kee Young Yoo,
Role delegation on multiple-attractor cellular automata based on pseudo-exhaustive bit patterns,
Applied Mathematics and Computation,
Volume 186, Issue 2,
2007,
Pages 1423-1428,
ISSN 0096-3003,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.amc.2006.07.149.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S009630030601068X)
Abstract: Role-based access control (RBAC) is arguably the most fundamental and most pervasive security mechanism in use today. RBAC shows up in virtually all systems and imposes great architectural and administrative challenges at all levels of enterprise computing. For efficient and simple management, we map RBAC onto multiple-attractor cellular automata (MACA). Separation of Duty (SoD) constraint and role delegations can be easily demonstrated in MACA based on pseudo-exhaustive (PE)-bit patterns. We also show how conflicts between specified SoD constraints and delegation activities can be resolved by PE-bit patterns. Thus we expect that our methodology can be effectively used for granting strategy in complex automatic system.
Keywords: Role-based access control; Separation of duty; Multiple-attractor cellular automata; Pseudo-exhaustive bit pattern

Urs Hengartner, Peter Steenkiste,
Exploiting information relationships for access control in pervasive computing,
Pervasive and Mobile Computing,
Volume 2, Issue 3,
2006,
Pages 344-367,
ISSN 1574-1192,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pmcj.2006.05.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S157411920600023X)
Abstract: Many information services in pervasive computing offer rich information, which is information that includes other types of information. For example, the information listed in a person’s calendar entry can reveal information about the person’s location or activity. To avoid rich information from leaking its included information, we must consider the semantics of the rich information when controlling access to this information. Other approaches that reason about the semantics of information (e.g., based on Semantic Web rule engines) are based on a centralized design, whose drawback is a single point of failure. In this paper, we exploit information relationships for capturing the semantics of information. We identify three types of information relationships that are common and important in pervasive computing and integrate support for them in a distributed, certificate-based access control architecture. In the architecture, individuals can either define their own information relationships or refer to relationships defined by a standardization organization. In our approach, access control is fully distributed while sophisticated rule engines can still be used to deal with more complex access control cases. To demonstrate the feasibility of our design, we give a complexity analysis of the architecture and a performance analysis of a prototype implementation.
Keywords: Distributed access control; Information relationships; Semantics

Giampaolo Bella, Stefano Bistarelli, Simon N. Foley,
Soft Constraints for Security,
Electronic Notes in Theoretical Computer Science,
Volume 142,
2006,
Pages 11-29,
ISSN 1571-0661,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.entcs.2005.07.011.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1571066105052084)
Abstract: Integrity policies and cryptographic protocols have much in common. They allow for a number of participating principals, and consist of sets of rules controlling the actions that principals should or should not perform. They are intended to uphold various security properties, the crucial ones being integrity, confidentiality and authentication. This paper takes a unified view to the analysis of integrity policies and cryptographic protocols: they are artifacts that must be designed to be sufficiently robust to attack given an understood threat model. For example, integrity policy rules provide resilience to the threat of internal fraud, while cryptographic protocols provide resilience to the threat of replay and related attacks. The framework is modelled using (soft) constraints and analysis corresponds to the soft constraint satisfaction problem. Soft constraints facilitate a quantitative approach to analyzing integrity, confidentiality and authentication. Examples will be given: an integrity policy may achieve different levels of integrity under different circumstances; a protocol message may enjoy different levels of confidentiality for different principals; a principal can achieve different levels of authentication with different principals.
Keywords: Constraints; Security Protocols; Integrity Policy

Randall E. LaSalle,
Effects of the fraud triangle on students’ risk assessments,
Journal of Accounting Education,
Volume 25, Issues 1–2,
2007,
Pages 74-87,
ISSN 0748-5751,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaccedu.2007.03.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0748575107000061)
Abstract: This study is motivated by Bailey’s [Bailey, C. D. (2004). An unusual cash control procedure. Journal of Accounting Education, 22, 119–129]. A disappointing 89% of Bailey’s 502 students appear to have overestimated the risk of an asset misappropriation. This study presents the results of two quasi-experiments that test whether students’ risk assessments are affected by the type of model presented to them immediately preceding their risk assessments. One group was provided an overview of the widely used Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO), Internal Control—Integrated Framework and the second group was provided a briefing on the Fraud Triangle, a model originally developed by criminologist, Donald R. Cressey (1973). As predicted, students who were provided an overview of the fraud triangle committed fewer Type I and Type II errors than students who were provided an overview of COSO. The results from this study contribute to the literature on risk assessment by demonstrating how the fraud triangle could, in some situations, lead to better risk assessments.
Keywords: Fraud triangle; Internal control; Fraud risk assessment

M. Coetzee, J.H.P. Eloff,
Towards Web Service access control,
Computers & Security,
Volume 23, Issue 7,
2004,
Pages 559-570,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2004.05.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404804001695)
Abstract: The Internet has revolutionised the capacity to share information and services across organisations. Web Service technology enables organisations to exploit software as a service. Services are accessed by method invocations. Method interfaces are described and published, and may be freely available. Method requests and responses are conveyed in SOAP, which has the ability to pass unhindered through firewalls. Applications that process SOAP requests may be endangered by messages with malicious intent. Protection of methods and resources exposed by SOAP is thus a critical requirement for Web Services to be acceptable to organisations. In Web Service environments, access control is required to cross the borders of security domains, to be implemented between heterogeneous systems. New approaches are required that would address the movement of unknown users across borders so that access to resources can be granted. Specifications have been released to address access control, but are not well established. In this paper, an analysis of current approaches to Web Service access control is made, which leads to five requirements to be addressed by future access control solutions. To address such requirements, a logic-based access control approach is defined for a Web Service endpoint. The paper does not address the access control logic that is required when more than one Web Service is used in an integrated business solution.
Keywords: SOAP; XML; Access control; Web Services; Assertions; Authorisation manager; Logical rules; Roles; Trust

Eldon Y. Li, Timon C. Du, Jacqueline W. Wong,
Access control in collaborative commerce,
Decision Support Systems,
Volume 43, Issue 2,
2007,
Pages 675-685,
ISSN 0167-9236,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dss.2005.05.022.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167923605000874)
Abstract: Corporate collaboration allows organizations to improve the efficiency and quality of their business activities. It may occur as a workflow collaboration, a supply chain collaboration, or as collaborative commerce. Collaborative commerce uses information technology to achieve a closer integration and better management of business relationships between internal and external parties. There are many emerging issues in collaborative commerce and one of them is access control. To implement collaborative commerce, interfaces between the system elements of the organizations that are involved in the collaboration are needed. However, access control policies are often inconsistent from interface to interface, and therefore conflict resolution should be considered to resolve multilevel access control policy problems. Many studies propose different rules for the resolution of the conflict between access control policies, but little attention has been given to the relationship between the groups or subject classes that represent the different types of corporate collaboration. In this paper, the format of corporate collaboration is considered, and the conflicts between the access control policies of interfaces are addressed. Some general guidelines, other than those that relate to minimum privilege on duty and maximum privilege on sharing, are proposed.
Keywords: Information sharing; Access control policy; Workflow; Supply chain; Collaborative commerce

Eric Jui-Lin Lu, Yi-Hui Chen,
A flexible delegation processor for web-based information systems,
Computer Standards & Interfaces,
Volume 27, Issue 3,
2005,
Pages 241-256,
ISSN 0920-5489,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csi.2004.08.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920548904000960)
Abstract: Web-based information systems (WISs) have been widely used by enterprises to accomplish business tasks through the Internet. For contemporary WISs, it is important that when a user logs into a WIS, the user should be able to see his or her own view of the system. To do so, it is imperative that a flexible authorization and delegation model should be developed for WISs. In particular, the delegation model should support fine-grained delegation and controlled propagation on targets. In this paper, we attempt to develop a flexible delegation model for WISs. The model is called Extensible Markup Language (XML)-based delegation and revocation (XDR) model which supports fine-grained delegation and controlled propagation on resources. Furthermore, the proposed model supports various types of delegation and revocation, such as single-step delegation, multistep delegation, multiple delegation, partial delegation, separation of duties (SOD), and cascading revocation. Finally, a prototype was designed and implemented to demonstrate the feasibility of the proposed model.
Keywords: XML; Granular access control; WIS; Delegation

Mike Small,
Managing entitlements,
Network Security,
Volume 2008, Issue 1,
2008,
Pages 13-17,
ISSN 1353-4858,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-4858(08)70009-6.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353485808700096)
Abstract: Entitlements describe the complete set of resources and access rights that a person should have based upon their job or position within an organisation. This can be extended to include the benefits that a person may be entitled to because of the product they have purchased (e.g. a cable TV service), their job or even their social status. Managing entitlements is now becoming one of the biggest security administration challenges for modern companies. It is now well understood how to manage peoples’ identities within an organisation. However, there is no common model for managing their entitlements. This is one of the biggest security administration challenges that we face. The word ‘entitlements’ is a way of describing the complete set of resources and access rights that a person should have based upon their job or position within the organisation. This can even be extended to include the benefits that a person may be entitled to. Their entitlements may be because of the product they have purchased (e.g. a cable TV service), their job or even their social status, such as age. The challenge is that each IT environment has a different model for access rights and a different user interface for managing them. These technical models are hard to relate to each other and to the overarching business model.

William Knight,
A fairy tale: perfect database security,
Infosecurity,
Volume 4, Issue 4,
2007,
Pages 29-31,
ISSN 1754-4548,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1754-4548(07)70108-0.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1754454807701080)
Abstract: What do the brothers Grimm and SQL injection attacks have in common? William Knight investigates

James A. DiGabriele,
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the private company discount: An empirical investigation,
Critical Perspectives on Accounting,
Volume 19, Issue 8,
2008,
Pages 1105-1121,
ISSN 1045-2354,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpa.2007.03.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S104523540700041X)
Abstract: While criticism of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX) typically focuses on its negative impact on small public companies, this study uses acquisition data to empirically investigate whether the Sarbanes-Oxley Act impacts the value of private firms. This study presents strong evidence that the private firm discount was greater post-SOX. The evidence represents support for the argument that SOX has been more detrimental for private companies than for public companies.

Jeffrey Doyle, Weili Ge, Sarah McVay,
Determinants of weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting,
Journal of Accounting and Economics,
Volume 44, Issues 1–2,
2007,
Pages 193-223,
ISSN 0165-4101,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jacceco.2006.10.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165410106000905)
Abstract: We examine determinants of weaknesses in internal control for 779 firms disclosing material weaknesses from August 2002 to 2005. We find that these firms tend to be smaller, younger, financially weaker, more complex, growing rapidly, or undergoing restructuring. Firms with more serious entity-wide control problems are smaller, younger and weaker financially, while firms with less severe, account-specific problems are healthy financially but have complex, diversified, and rapidly changing operations. Finally, we find that the determinants also vary based on the specific reason for the material weakness, consistent with each firm facing their own unique set of internal control challenges.
Keywords: Internal control; Material weakness; Sarbanes-Oxley

Michael Firth, Peter M.Y. Fung, Oliver M. Rui,
Ownership, two-tier board structure, and the informativeness of earnings – Evidence from China,
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy,
Volume 26, Issue 4,
2007,
Pages 463-496,
ISSN 0278-4254,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaccpubpol.2007.05.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0278425407000385)
Abstract: This study extends previous research by empirically examining how ownership, two-tier board structure, and auditor affect the informativeness of earnings for companies listed in China. We measure the informativeness of earnings by the earnings–returns relation, discretionary accruals, and audit opinion. The results show that ownership concentration, the presence of foreign shareholders, the percentage of tradable shares, the type of dominant shareholder, the supervisory board, and independent directors affect the earnings response coefficients and discretionary accruals. We also find that the type of dominant shareholder, the size of the supervisory board, and the percentage of independent directors have an impact on the frequency of modified audit opinions. Our research has implications for China’s regulators who are striving to improve accounting information, transparency, and corporate governance.
Keywords: Informativeness of earnings; Ownership; Corporate governance

Shih-Chien Chou, An-Feng Liu, Chien-Jung Wu,
Preventing information leakage within workflows that execute among competing organizations,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 75, Issues 1–2,
2005,
Pages 109-123,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2004.01.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121204000020)
Abstract: This paper proposes a model for access control within workflows. It is based on access control lists (ACLs) and is named WfACL (ACL-based access control model for workflows). WfACL prevents information leakage within workflows that may execute among competing organizations. Its objective is threefold. First, it prevents an organization that executes a workflow from leaking its information to other organizations. Second, it prevents information leakage among competing organizations. Third, it prevents information leakage within an organization. In addition to achieving the objective, WfACL offers the following features: (a) managing dynamic role association change, (b) managing dynamic role change, (c) avoiding indirect information leakage, (d) detailing the control granularity to roles, and (e) controlling both read and write access. We embedded WfACL in a rule-based workflow language WfACLL and implemented a prototype environment WfACLE. We evaluated WfACL using WfACLL and WfACLE. The evaluation result is also shown in this paper.
Keywords: Workflow; Access control; Security; Access control list (ACL); Prevent information leakage

K. Lano,
Constraint-driven development,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 50, Issue 5,
2008,
Pages 406-423,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2007.04.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584907000420)
Abstract: To obtain the full benefits of model-driven development (MDD) approaches such as MDA, a suitable level of abstraction needs to be chosen which enables the core functionality and properties of a system to be expressed, independent of programming language or implementation platform, so that this specification can be reused for a wide variety of different environments. This paper describes how constraints, together with UML class diagrams and state machines, can be used as a precise and platform-independent specification language. We describe the use of constraints in UML-RSDS and tool support for the synthesis of executable systems from constraints.
Keywords: UML; MDD; OCL; UML-RSDS; Verification

Marianthi Theoharidou, Spyros Kokolakis, Maria Karyda, Evangelos Kiountouzis,
The insider threat to information systems and the effectiveness of ISO17799,
Computers & Security,
Volume 24, Issue 6,
2005,
Pages 472-484,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2005.05.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404805000684)
Abstract: Insider threat is widely recognised as an issue of utmost importance for IS security management. In this paper, we investigate the approach followed by ISO17799, the dominant standard in IS security management, in addressing this type of threat. We unfold the criminology theory that has designated the measures against insider misuse suggested by the standard, i.e. the General Deterrence Theory, and explore the possible enhancements to the standard that could result from the study of more recent criminology theories. The paper concludes with supporting the argument for a multiparadigm and multidisciplinary approach towards IS security management and insider threat mitigation.
Keywords: Insider threat; Computer misuse; IS security management; Criminology theories; ISO17799

Albin Zuccato,
Holistic security requirement engineering for electronic commerce,
Computers & Security,
Volume 23, Issue 1,
2004,
Pages 63-76,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0167-4048(04)00065-3.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404804000653)
Abstract: With the introduction of electronic commerce, business is becoming dependent on information systems in a new way. Information security is thus becoming more and more important to companies' self-protection. In contrast to previous systems, this is also directly visible to the customer. The changing situation means, however, that the requirements for security cannot be solely filled by new policies and risk analysis. This article proposes an approach called “holistic security requirement engineering” meant to elicit security requirements according to system-theoretic considerations. It will show that security requirements can be defined with the help of investigations in the business environment, workshops with stakeholders and risk analysis. This multidimensional approach will lead to a holistic understanding of the requirements that fit into the system development life cycles.
Keywords: Security requirement engineering; Security requirement; Risk analysis; Electronic commerce; Holistic requirements engineering

Wen-Bao Lin,
The exploration factors of affecting knowledge sharing – The case of Taiwan’s high-tech industry,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 35, Issue 3,
2008,
Pages 661-676,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2007.07.038.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417407002783)
Abstract: In the past, the studies on knowledge sharing tended to be focused on the organization and few paid attention to the departments inside the organization. In this study, valid samples were collected from Taiwan’s 92 IC related firms in the high-tech industry through the Hierarchical Random Sampling method for empirical analysis. The non-linear fuzzy neural network is used due to its capacity in accepting errors and low limitation. This method enables researchers to accurately assess the relations between variables. The result of this study indicated that the degree of formalization and complexity of the organizational structure is negatively and significantly correlated with knowledge sharing. Similarly, motivation through material reward correlates positively and significantly with knowledge sharing with stronger intensity than that between motivation through non-material reward and knowledge sharing. The degree of integration between organizations correlates positively and significantly with knowledge sharing.
Keywords: Organizational structure characteristics; Motivation method; Relational involvement; Knowledge sharing

Trevor Stanley, Pam Edwards,
Interactive multimedia teaching of Accounting Information System (AIS) cycles: Student perceptions and views,
Journal of Accounting Education,
Volume 23, Issue 1,
2005,
Pages 21-46,
ISSN 0748-5751,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaccedu.2005.04.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0748575105000205)
Abstract: This paper describes the design and development of a CD ROM intended to assist students’ learning by bringing a sense of reality to the concepts studied in relation to accounting information systems cycles. The educational design is underpinned by constructivist theories of learning which espouse the benefits of experiential learning in facilitating effective student learning. Three Australian companies – Warner Brothers Movie World, Golden Circle and Zupps Parts – are featured on the CD ROM to provide virtual “experiential learning experiences” for students. An extensive evaluation of the CD ROM was conducted, involving both qualitative and quantitative methodologies, to ascertain students’ perceived value of the CD ROM in assisting their learning. Results indicate that the CD ROM offered students a real life understanding of applicable concepts and that students were receptive to learning in online environments which are appropriately designed and constructed.
Keywords: Accounting education; Technology in education; Accounting CD ROM; Multimedia; Experiential learning

Thomas B. Quillinan, Simon N. Foley,
Synchronisation in Trust Management Using Push Authorisation,
Electronic Notes in Theoretical Computer Science,
Volume 157, Issue 3,
2006,
Pages 143-158,
ISSN 1571-0661,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.entcs.2005.09.035.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1571066106002982)
Abstract: Traditional trust management authorisation decisions for distributed technologies, are, in general, based on the history of the authorisations/computation to date. We consider this a pull authorisation strategy: the authorisation decision reflects the current and/or past authorisations. In this paper, we examine this pull strategy and propose an alternative form of authorisation in a distributed environment. Instead of 'pulling' the information required for the current authorisation decisions from the past, authorisation decisions are made to specify what will happen in the future. This strategy is called push authorisation. When a push decision is made, its result is pushed to just the relevant protection mechanisms. This approach allows the creation of distributed separation of duties policies, without requiring additional synchronisation between components in the execution. It allows present actions to inform future authorisation decisions, before those decisions must be made.
Keywords: Naming; Trust Management; Distributed Systems

Andrea Omicini, Alessandro Ricci, Mirko Viroli,
Agent Coordination Contexts for the formal specification and enactment of coordination and security policies,
Science of Computer Programming,
Volume 63, Issue 1,
2006,
Pages 88-107,
ISSN 0167-6423,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scico.2005.07.014.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016764230600102X)
Abstract: In the context of multi-agent systems (MAS), an Agent Coordination Context (ACC) is an abstraction provided by the infrastructure to each agent entering a MAS, aimed at enabling and controlling all the interactions of the agent with its environment. The notion of ACC features some key properties that help abating system complexity, that is, (i) it works as both a coordination and a security abstraction, (ii) it covers the engineering process from design to deployment, and (iii) it comes equipped with a clear formalisation, thus easing predictability of the MAS behaviour. In particular, in this paper we exploit typical process algebra techniques to define the syntax and semantics of a language for ACC specification, describing patterns of interaction protocols allowed to the agent. This language is shown to be useful to specify and enact integrated policies for security and coordination in MAS.
Keywords: Coordination; Security; Agent Coordination Context; Formal specification

Indrakshi Ray, Robert France, Na Li, Geri Georg,
An aspect-based approach to modeling access control concerns,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 46, Issue 9,
2004,
Pages 575-587,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2003.10.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584903002179)
Abstract: Specifying, enforcing and evolving access control policies is essential to prevent security breaches and unavailability of resources. These access control design concerns impose requirements that allow only authorized users to access protected computer-based resources. Addressing these concerns in a design results in the spreading of access control functionality across several design modules. The pervasive nature of access control functionality makes it difficult to evolve, analyze, and enforce access control policies. To tackle this problem, we propose using an aspect-oriented modeling(AOM) approach for addressing access control concerns. In the AOM approach, functionality that addresses a pervasive access control concern is localized in an aspect. Other functional design concerns are addressed in a model of the application referred to as a primary model. Composing access control aspects with a primary model results in an application model that addresses access control concerns. We illustrate our approach using a form of Role-Based Access Control.
Keywords: Access control policies; Role-based access control; Aspects; Models

Larry D. Wall, Robert A. Eisenbeis, W. Scott Frame,
Resolving large financial intermediaries: Banks versus housing enterprises,
Journal of Financial Stability,
Volume 1, Issue 3,
2005,
Pages 386-425,
ISSN 1572-3089,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jfs.2005.02.009.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1572308905000100)
Abstract: This paper examines the policy issues associated with resolving the possible failure of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac (housing enterprises). It compares and contrasts these issues with those raised in the context of large bank failures and also identifies important differences in the extant supervisory authorities. Based on these discussions, a number of policy suggestions are offered to minimize the cost of resolution and protect taxpayers from loss should a large bank or housing enterprise fail.
Keywords: Government sponsored enterprises; Bank failure; Too big to fail; Resolution; Receivership

J. Michael Tarn, Chuan Pang, David C. Yen, Jon Chen,
Exploring the implementation and application of Bluetooth technology in the shipping industry,
Computer Standards & Interfaces,
Volume 31, Issue 1,
2009,
Pages 48-55,
ISSN 0920-5489,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csi.2007.10.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920548907001031)
Abstract: Bluetooth technology has become more and more popular in today's worldwide operations. Its impact on the shipping industry is specifically unique and profound. The purpose of this study is to explore the implementation and application of Bluetooth technology in the shipping industry. This article first introduces the standard and technology of Bluetooth as well as the efforts to develop and promote the standard. Then, the current status of Bluetooth applications in the shipping industry is discussed. Further, three cases, including FedEx, UPS and DHL, are studied along with a Strategic-Managerial-Organizational-Technological-Security-Social (SMOTSS) analysis. The article is concluded with the implications and future of Bluetooth technology.
Keywords: Bluetooth; Standard; Technology; Shipping industry; SIG; SMOTSS analysis

Phil Pinder,
Preparing Information Security for legal and regulatory compliance (Sarbanes–Oxley and Basel II),
Information Security Technical Report,
Volume 11, Issue 1,
2006,
Pages 32-38,
ISSN 1363-4127,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.istr.2005.12.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1363412705000786)
Abstract: The problem for many IT and Information Security departments is how to keep abreast of new and never-ending regulation and legislation and translate it into IT terms. This article reviews two of the more recent examples (Sarbanes–Oxley and Basel II), how compliance can be addressed in a more cost-effective fashion and how this is changing the role of Information Security.

M. Weiss, B. Esfandiari, Y. Luo,
Towards a classification of web service feature interactions,
Computer Networks,
Volume 51, Issue 2,
2007,
Pages 359-381,
ISSN 1389-1286,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2006.08.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S138912860600212X)
Abstract: The rapid introduction of new web services into a dynamic business environment can lead to undesirable interactions that negatively affect service quality and user satisfaction. In previous work, we have demonstrated how such interactions between web services can be modeled as feature interactions. In this paper, we outline a classification of web service feature interactions. The goals of this classification are to understand the scope of the feature interaction problem in the web services domain, and to propose a benchmark against which to assess the coverage of solutions to this problem. As there is no standard set of web services that one could use as examples, we illustrate the interactions using a fictitious e-commerce scenario.
Keywords: Feature interaction; Web services; Classification

JuHum Kwon, Chang-Joo Moon,
Visual modeling and formal specification of constraints of RBAC using semantic web technology,
Knowledge-Based Systems,
Volume 20, Issue 4,
2007,
Pages 350-356,
ISSN 0950-7051,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2006.08.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950705106001511)
Abstract: The role-based access control (RBAC) model has garnered great interest in the security community due to the flexible and secure nature of its applicability to the complex and sophisticated information system. One import aspect of RBAC is the enforcing of security policy, called constraint, which controls the behavior of components in RBAC. Much research has been conducted to specify constraints. However, more work is needed on the aspect of sharing information resources for providing better interoperability in the widely dispersed ubiquitous information system environment. This paper provides visual modeling of RBAC policy and specifies constraints of RBAC by employing a semantic web ontology language (OWL) to enhance understanding of constraints for machines and people in a ubiquitous computing environment. Using OWL, constraints were precisely formalized according to the constraint patterns and the effectiveness of OWL specification was demonstrated by showing the reasoning process.
Keywords: RBAC; OWL; Visual modeling; Description logics; Semantic web technology

Tsung-Yi Chen, Yuh-Min Chen, Chin-Bin Wang, Hui-Chuan Chu, Huimei Yang,
Secure resource sharing on cross-organization collaboration using a novel trust method,
Robotics and Computer-Integrated Manufacturing,
Volume 23, Issue 4,
2007,
Pages 421-435,
ISSN 0736-5845,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rcim.2006.04.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0736584506000731)
Abstract: A virtual enterprise (VE) consists of a network of independent, geographically dispersed administrative business domains that collaborate with each other by sharing business processes and resources across enterprises to provide a value-added service to customers. Therefore, the success of a VE relies on full information transparency and appropriate resource sharing, making security and trust among subjects significant issues. Trust evaluation to ensure information security is most complicated in a VE involving cross-organization collaboration. This study presents a virtual enterprise access control (VEAC) model to enable resource sharing for collaborative operations in the VE. A scenario for authentication and authorization in the life cycle of a VE is then described to identify the main activities for controlling access. Also developed herein is a trust evaluation method based on the VEAC model to improve its security while safeguarding sensitive resources to support collaborative activities. The trust evaluation method involves two trust evaluation sub-models, one to evaluate the level of trust between two virtual enterprise roles, and another to measure the level of trust between two projects. The two sub-models support each other to make resource-sharing decisions, and are developed based on the concepts of direct, indirect, and negative trust factors. Finally, an example of measuring the trust between two subjects is demonstrated after introducing the two sub-models. The VEAC-based trust evaluation method enables the following: (1) secure resource sharing across projects and enterprises, (2) collaborative operation among participating workers, (3) increased information transparency and (4) lowered information delay in VEs.
Keywords: Virtual enterprise; Resource sharing; RBAC; Trust; Access control; Collaboration

Alan T. Lord,
ISACA model curricula 2004,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 5, Issue 2,
2004,
Pages 251-265,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2004.04.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089504000259)
Abstract: Part of the mission of the Information Systems Audit and Control Association (ISACA) is to improve the educational background of its members and potential members. In 1998, ISACA released the “Model Curricula for Information Systems Auditing at the Undergraduate and Graduate Levels” and in 2000 a task force was created to update the Model. The task force is composed of academics and professional IS auditors representing 11 countries and 5 continents. This paper reports on the efforts of this task force to create a new model that will be easier for universities around the globe to implement into their curricula and that will create a method for adopting universities to be recognized by ISACA. It describes the components of the model and the adoption procedures that should be considered by interested universities
Keywords: ISACA; Model Curricula; Task force

Pauline Ratnasingam,
Trust in inter-organizational exchanges: a case study in business to business electronic commerce,
Decision Support Systems,
Volume 39, Issue 3,
2005,
Pages 525-544,
ISSN 0167-9236,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dss.2003.12.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167923604000314)
Abstract: Given the uncertainties of online transactions, e-commerce encourages the creation of institutional structures for online exchange relationships. Building upon the notion of institutional trust, this research examines how institutional structures develop through governance mechanisms leading to technology trust derived from structural assurances for online dyadic relationships. Technology trust is defined as the subjective probability by which organizations believe that the underlying technology infrastructure is capable of facilitating transactions according to their confident expectations. Using a cognitive process framework, we discuss four perspectives of trust, namely technological, economic, behavioral, and organizational perspectives, to show how technology trust evolves into relationship trust. We examine the impact of technology trust within an inter-organizational dyad between Cisco and Compaq. The findings posit that technology trust contributes and evolves into relationship trust. The study provides evidence on how specific structural assurances in Cisco Connection Online help to build initial online technology trust in B2B marketplaces that in turn promotes relationship trust and builds trustworthy e-commerce relationships. The paper discusses theoretical and managerial implications of this study, while proposing suggestions for future research.
Keywords: Institutional structures; Business-to-business e-commerce; Technology trust; Inter-organizational trust

Cath Everett,
Piecing identity together,
Infosecurity,
Volume 4, Issue 6,
2007,
Pages 22-25,
ISSN 1754-4548,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1754-4548(07)70145-6.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1754454807701456)
Abstract: Identity and access management are becoming more important, and with user accounts proliferating, it may be time to start joining things up. Cath Everett reports

Chang-Joo Moon, Dae-Ha Park, Soung-Jin Park, Doo-Kwon Baik,
Symmetric RBAC model that takes the separation of duty and role hierarchies into consideration,
Computers & Security,
Volume 23, Issue 2,
2004,
Pages 126-136,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2003.09.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404804000185)
Abstract: RBAC is a family of reference models in which permissions are assigned to roles, and users are also assigned to appropriate roles. Studies on the permission–role part of RBAC model are relatively insufficient compared with those on the user–role part, and researches on symmetric RBAC models to overcome this is also in an incipient stage. Therefore there is difficulty in assigning permissions suitable for roles. This paper proposes a symmetric RBAC model that supplements the constraints on permission assignment set forth by previous studies. The proposed symmetric RBAC model reflects the conflicts of interests between roles and the sharing and integration of permissions on the assignment of permissions by presenting the constraints on permission assignment that take the separation of duties and role hierarchies into consideration. In addition, by expressing constraints prescribing prerequisite relations between permissions through AND/OR graphs, it is possible to effectively limit the complicated prerequisite relations of permissions. The constraints on permission assignment for the proposed symmetric RBAC model reduce errors in permission assignment by properly detailing rules to observe at the time of permission assignment.
Keywords: RBAC; Role; Authorization; Permission Assignment; Constraint

Calum Macleod,
Mamma Mia! – here we go again,
Computer Fraud & Security,
Volume 2007, Issue 9,
2007,
Pages 19-20,
ISSN 1361-3723,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-3723(07)70118-5.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361372307701185)
Abstract: Calum Macleod looks at how to prevent double-crossing employees from embarrassing your organization

David Chadwick,
Authorisation in Grid computing,
Information Security Technical Report,
Volume 10, Issue 1,
2005,
Pages 33-40,
ISSN 1363-4127,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.istr.2004.11.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1363412704000056)
Abstract: This paper briefly surveys how authorisation in Grid computing has evolved during the last few years, and presents the latest developments in which Grid applications can utilise a policy controlled authorisation infrastructure to make decisions about which users are allowed to perform which actions on which Grid resources. The paper describes the Global Grid Forum SAML interface for connecting policy based authorisation infrastructures to Grid applications, and then describes the PERMIS authorisation infrastructure which has implemented this interface. The paper concludes with suggestions about how this work will evolve in the future.

Moritz Y. Becker,
Information governance in NHS's NPfIT: A case for policy specification,
International Journal of Medical Informatics,
Volume 76, Issues 5–6,
2007,
Pages 432-437,
ISSN 1386-5056,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijmedinf.2006.09.008.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1386505606002139)
Abstract: Purpose
The National Health Service's (NHS's) National Programme for Information Technology (NPfIT) in the UK with its proposed nation-wide online health record service poses serious technical challenges, especially with regard to access control and patient confidentiality. The complexity of the confidentiality requirements and their constantly evolving nature (due to changes in law, guidelines and ethical consensus) make traditional technologies such as role-based access control (RBAC) unsuitable. Furthermore, a more formal approach is also needed for debating about and communicating on information governance, as natural-language descriptions of security policies are inherently ambiguous and incomplete. Our main goal is to convince the reader of the strong benefits of employing formal policy specification in nation-wide electronic health record (EHR) projects.
Approach
Many difficulties could be alleviated by specifying the requirements in a formal authorisation policy language such as Cassandra. The language is unambiguous, declarative and machine-enforceable, and is based on distributed constrained Datalog. Cassandra is interpreted within a distributed Trust Management environment, where digital credentials are used for establishing mutual trust between strangers.
Results
To demonstrate how policy specification can be applied to NPfIT, we translate a fragment of natural-language NHS specification into formal Cassandra rules. In particular, we present policy rules pertaining to the management of Clinician Sealed Envelopes, the mechanism by which clinical patient data can be concealed in the nation-wide EHR service. Our case study exposes ambiguities and incompletenesses in the informal NHS documents.
Conclusions
We strongly recommend the use of trust management and policy specification technology for the implementation of nation-wide EHR infrastructures. Formal policies can be used for automatically enforcing confidentiality requirements, but also for specification and communication purposes. Formalising the requirements also reveals ambiguities and missing details in the currently used informal specification documents.
Keywords: Electronic health record; Patient confidentiality; Trust management; Authorisation policy; Access control

Michael Rigby, David Budgen, Mark Turner, Ioannis Kotsiopoulos, Pearl Brereton, John Keane, Keith Bennett, Michelle Russell, Paul Layzell, Fujun Zhu,
A data-gathering broker as a future-orientated approach to supporting EPR users,
International Journal of Medical Informatics,
Volume 76, Issues 2–3,
2007,
Pages 137-144,
ISSN 1386-5056,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijmedinf.2006.07.012.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1386505606001961)
Abstract: With the continued expansion of electronic patient record systems ahead of comprehensive evidence, metrics, or future-proofing, health informatics in Europe and beyond is embarking on a faith-driven adventure that also risks data swamping of end-users. An alternative approach is an information broker system, drawing from departmental data sources. A 3-year study in health and social care has produced a first demonstrator which can search for specified information in heterogeneous distributed data stores, with source-specific permission can copy it, and then merge the search results into one integrated picture in a real-time process which is also captured in an audit system. The research project has addressed a number of issues during the study, including updating the concepts of role-based access, semantic interoperability, and harnessing web-based services bound at the time of need. A demonstrator now exists, and provides a platform for further application and development research. This paper summarises how this opens up a viable alternative approach for the next generation of health record systems, enabling record searching and integration as and when it is needed for specific patient-related purposes, whilst being independent of organisations, diagnostic approaches, or service delivery structures, and reducing the risks of data swamping.
Keywords: Information broker; Electronic health records; Web services; Role-based access

P.F. Linington, Z. Milosevic, J. Cole, S. Gibson, S. Kulkarni, S. Neal,
A unified behavioural model and a contract language for extended enterprise,
Data & Knowledge Engineering,
Volume 51, Issue 1,
2004,
Pages 5-29,
ISSN 0169-023X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.datak.2004.03.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169023X0400031X)
Abstract: This paper presents a coordination model for expressing behaviour in an extended enterprise. Our model is unified because it enables the same style of expressions for describing behaviour/structure in a self-contained enterprise and for describing cross-enterprise behaviour/structure. This model can support a broad range of modelling activities but the specific focus of this paper is on deriving the key elements of a domain language primarily targeted at expressing and monitoring behavioural conditions stated in business contracts. We also show how business contracts serve as a unifying mechanism for describing interactions in the extended enterprise.
Keywords: E-commerce; Contracts; Enterprise specification; Cooperative work; Web applications/XML

Andrea Pasquinucci,
Security, risk analysis and governance: a practical approach,
Computer Fraud & Security,
Volume 2007, Issue 7,
2007,
Pages 12-14,
ISSN 1361-3723,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-3723(07)70091-X.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S136137230770091X)
Abstract: Most low and medium risk vulnerabilities have been fixed, but business risks are greater than in the past, says a report in this issue of Computer Fraud & Security. Dr Andrea Pasquinucci believes the security level of systems and applications has greatly improved. But despite the improvement of ICT security, the financial risks from systems are much higher with fraud being the largest security concern. He recommends practical techniques to find the weakest points and secure them. Andrea Pasquinucci examines what risk means to different sized companies

Kazuhiro Minami, David Kotz,
Secure context-sensitive authorization,
Pervasive and Mobile Computing,
Volume 1, Issue 1,
2005,
Pages 123-156,
ISSN 1574-1192,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pmcj.2005.01.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1574119205000052)
Abstract: There is a recent trend toward rule-based authorization systems to achieve flexible security policies. Also, new sensing technologies in pervasive computing make it possible to define context-sensitive rules, such as “allow database access only to staff who are currently located in the main office”. However, these rules, or the facts that are needed to verify authority, often involve sensitive context information. This paper presents a secure context-sensitive authorization system that protects confidential information in facts or rules. Furthermore, our system allows multiple hosts in a distributed environment to perform the evaluation of an authorization query in a collaborative way; we do not need a universally trusted central host that maintains all the context information. The core of our approach is to decompose a proof for making an authorization decision into a set of sub-proofs produced on multiple different hosts, while preserving the integrity and confidentiality policies of the mutually untrusted principals operating these hosts. We prove the correctness of our algorithm.
Keywords: Mobile computing; Pervasive computing; Ubicomp; Context-aware; Security; Privacy

Andrew J. Leone,
Factors related to internal control disclosure: A discussion of Ashbaugh, Collins, and Kinney (2007) and Doyle, Ge, and McVay (2007),
Journal of Accounting and Economics,
Volume 44, Issues 1–2,
2007,
Pages 224-237,
ISSN 0165-4101,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jacceco.2007.01.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165410107000158)
Abstract: Ashbaugh, Collins, and Kinney, henceforth ACK, and Doyle, Ge, and McVay, henceforth DGM, provide the first evidence relating firm characteristics to internal control deficiencies (ICDs) reported under new disclosure requirements. Both studies document that control risk factors associated with organizational complexity and significant organizational change, as well as relative investment in internal control systems, are related to disclosure of internal control. ACK also test whether factors associated with incentives to discover and report ICDs affect disclosure of ICDs but this evidence is less compelling. I present alternative explanations and provide some descriptive evidence that is consistent with these alternative explanations.
Keywords: Auditing; Internal control; Disclosure; Sarbanes–Oxley

L. Drevin, H.A. Kruger, T. Steyn,
Value-focused assessment of ICT security awareness in an academic environment,
Computers & Security,
Volume 26, Issue 1,
2007,
Pages 36-43,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2006.10.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404806001544)
Abstract: Security awareness is important to reduce human error, theft, fraud, and misuse of computer assets. A strong ICT security culture cannot develop and grow in a company without awareness programmes. This paper focuses on ICT security awareness and how to identify key areas of concern to address in ICT security awareness programmes by making use of the value-focused approach. The result of this approach is a network of objectives where the fundamental objectives are the key areas of concern that can be used in decision making in security planning. The fundamental objectives were found to be in line with the acknowledged goals of ICT security, e.g. confidentiality, integrity and availability. Other objectives that emerged were more on the social and management side, e.g. responsibility for actions and effective use of resources.
Keywords: ICT security awareness; Value-focused assessment; Fundamental objectives; Means objectives; Security culture; Security planning

Jan Peters, Roland Rieke, Taufiq Rochaeli, Björn Steinemann, Ruben Wolf,
A Holistic Approach to Security Policies – Policy Distribution with XACML over COPS,
Electronic Notes in Theoretical Computer Science,
Volume 168,
2007,
Pages 143-157,
ISSN 1571-0661,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.entcs.2006.08.025.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1571066107000333)
Abstract: The potentials of modern information technology can only be exploited, if the underlying infrastructure and the applied applications sufficiently take into account all aspects of IT security. This paper presents the platform architecture of the SicAri project, which aims to build a security platform for ubiquitous Internet usage, and gives an overview of the implicitly and explicitly used security mechanisms to enable access control for service oriented applications in distributed environments. The paper will introduce the security policy integration concept with a special focus on distribution of security policies within the service infrastructure for transparent policy enforcement. We describe in details our extensions of the COPS protocol to transport XACML payload for security policy distribution and policy decision requests/responses.
Keywords: service platform; security policies; policy distribution; policy decision; policy enforcement; web services; XACML; COPS

Sangkyun Kim, Hong Joo Lee,
A study on decision consolidation methods using analytic models for security systems,
Computers & Security,
Volume 26, Issue 2,
2007,
Pages 145-153,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2006.08.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404806001404)
Abstract: The successful management of information security within an organization is vital to its survival and success. The necessary security controls need to be implemented and managed effectively. In this paper, using the characteristics of the AHP, a study on information security management systems is selected from the perspective of Process Model and Criteria. A case study has proven potential value of this methodology in helping decision-makers in supporting their selection of security controls.
Keywords: Security controls; Evaluation criteria; Package introduction

Khaled Alghathbar,
Validating the enforcement of access control policies and separation of duty principle in requirement engineering,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 49, Issue 2,
2007,
Pages 142-157,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2006.03.009.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584906000450)
Abstract: Validating the compliance of software requirements with the access control policies during the early development life cycle improves the security of the software. It prevents authorizing unauthorized subject during the specification of requirements and analysis before proceeding to other phases where the cost of fixing defects is augmented. This paper provides a logical-based framework that analyzes the authorization requirements specified in the Unified Modeling Language (UML). It ensures that the access requirements are consistent, complete and conflict-free. The framework proposed in this paper is an extension to AuthUML framework. We refine AuthUML and extend it by expanding its analysis to validate the enforcement of the Separation of Duty (SoD) during the requirement engineering. We enhance and extend AuthUML with the necessary phase, predicates and rules. The paper shows the various types of SoD and how each type can be validated. The extension shows the flexibility and scalability of AuthUML to validate new policies. Also, the extension makes AuthUML spans to different phases of the software development process that widen the application of AuthUML.
Keywords: Access control policies; Security engineering; Use cases; Semi-formal methods; Separation of duty

Ian Grant,
Terror outrages drive infosec Down Under,
Infosecurity Today,
Volume 3, Issue 1,
2006,
Pages 25-29,
ISSN 1742-6847,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1742-6847(06)70363-9.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1742684706703639)
Abstract: 9/11 and the Bali bombs almost a year later were a security wake-up call to many Western governments, perhaps none more so than Australia and New Zealand. These events now overshadow the development of infosecurity in civil society Down Under.

Gail-Joon Ahn, Badrinath Mohan, Seng-Phil Hong,
Towards secure information sharing using role-based delegation,
Journal of Network and Computer Applications,
Volume 30, Issue 1,
2007,
Pages 42-59,
ISSN 1084-8045,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2005.08.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1084804505000408)
Abstract: As computing becomes more pervasive, information sharing occurs in broad, highly dynamic network-based environments. Such pervasive computing environments pose a difficult challenge in formally accessing the resources. The digital information generally represents sensitive and confidential information that organizations must protect and allow only authorized personnel to access and manipulate them. As organizations implement information strategies that call for sharing access to resources in the networked environment, mechanisms must be provided to protect the resources from adversaries. In this paper, we seek to address the issue of how to advocate selective information sharing while minimizing the risks of unauthorized access. We integrate a role-based delegation framework to propose a system architecture. We also demonstrate the feasibility of our framework through a proof-of-concept implementation.
Keywords: Information sharing; Role-based; Delegation

Steve Gold,
Time to face virtualized realities,
Infosecurity,
Volume 4, Issue 4,
2007,
Pages 35-38,
ISSN 1754-4548,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1754-4548(07)70110-9.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1754454807701109)
Abstract: Virtualized client-server technology is riding high on increased efficiency and reduced total costs of ownership. But is security in danger of getting left behind in the race towards this accountancy nirvana, asks Steve Gold?

Paloma Díaz, Susana Montero, Ignacio Aedo,
Modelling hypermedia and web applications: the Ariadne Development Method,
Information Systems,
Volume 30, Issue 8,
2005,
Pages 649-673,
ISSN 0306-4379,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2004.09.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306437904000924)
Abstract: The development process of hypermedia and web systems poses very specific problems that do not appear in other software applications, such as the need for mechanisms to model sophisticated navigational structures, interactive behaviors, interfaces with external applications, security constraints and multimedia compositions. Even though experience, modelling skills and abstractions can be borrowed from existing software design methods, such as object-oriented modelling, hypermedia developers need specific mechanisms to analyze and design using entities that belong to the hypermedia domain (such as nodes, links, anchors and space and time-based relationships). Moreover, hypermedia methods should provide mechanisms to deal with all the aforementioned features in a progressive and integrated way. In this paper, we present the Ariadne Development Method (ADM), a software engineering method that proposes a systematic, flexible, integrative and platform-independent process to specify and evaluate hypermedia and web applications. ADM has been shown particularly useful in complex systems involving a huge number of users with different abilities to access information, with a complex structure where a huge number of nodes have to be organized in a clear way to produce specifications that are discussed by people with an heterogeneous background. This is the case of ARCE, a Latin American project where 21 countries are cooperating to produce a web platform to improve assistance in disaster mitigation situations.
Keywords: Hypermedia development; Software engineering methods; Authoring-in-the-large; Authoring-in-the-small; Evaluation; User-centered development; User interfaces; Hypermedia security

David Frith,
E-voting security: hope or hype?,
Network Security,
Volume 2007, Issue 11,
2007,
Pages 14-16,
ISSN 1353-4858,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-4858(08)70041-2.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353485808700412)
Abstract: This article explores the drive and reasoning behind electronic voting (commonly known as e-voting). The term e-voting refers to the electronic means of both casting and counting a vote.

Petros Belsis, Stefanos Gritzalis, Sokratis K. Katsikas,
Partial and Fuzzy Constraint Satisfaction to Support Coalition Formation,
Electronic Notes in Theoretical Computer Science,
Volume 179,
2007,
Pages 75-86,
ISSN 1571-0661,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.entcs.2006.08.032.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1571066107003040)
Abstract: The creation of dynamic coalitions is a challenging task, seen from a security perspective. Due to the presence of conflicting requirements and specifications, the policy negotiation and policy merging processes call for the use of efficient techniques to resolve ambiguities. Constraints and constraint programming on the other hand, are useful means for representing a wide range of access control states and access control problems. In this paper we utilize constraints to represent access control policies in a multi-domain environment. In contrast to monolithic (crisp) constraint satisfaction techniques, we extend the applicability of constraints for access control, by examining soft constraints and partial constraint satisfaction. We also introduce a security framework based on fuzzy constraints that allows the determination of preferences for the participating domains.
Keywords: Coalitions; fuzzy constraints; policies; Role Based Access Control (RBAC)

Robert Willison,
Understanding the perpetration of employee computer crime in the organisational context,
Information and Organization,
Volume 16, Issue 4,
2006,
Pages 304-324,
ISSN 1471-7727,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infoandorg.2006.08.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1471772706000224)
Abstract: While hackers and viruses fuel the IS security concerns for organisations, the problems posed by employee computer crime should not be underestimated. Indeed, a number of IS security researchers have turned their attention to the ‘insider’ threat. Of this group, several focus on the offender, either in terms of a series of attributes required for perpetration, or with reference to forms of safeguards aimed at negating such behaviour. These studies are complemented by those texts which examine the organisational context in which rogue employees commit computer crime. Currently, however, there has been a lack of insight into the relationship between the offender and the context, during the commission process. To address this deficiency, two criminological theories are advanced. This paper illustrates how the theories, entitled the Rational Choice Perspective and Situational Crime Prevention, can be applied to the IS domain, thereby offering a theoretical basis by which to analyse the offender/context relationship during perpetration. By so doing, practitioners may use these insights to inform and enhance the selection of safeguards in a bid to improve prevention programmes. Furthermore, the importation of the Rational Choice Perspective and Situational Crime Prevention into the IS field opens up potentially new areas for future research.
Keywords: IS security; Criminology; Employee computer crime; Perpetration

Richard Power, Dario Forte,
Sarbanes-Oxley: maybe a blessing, maybe a curse,
Computer Fraud & Security,
Volume 2005, Issue 9,
2005,
Pages 4-7,
ISSN 1361-3723,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-3723(05)70250-5.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361372305702505)
Abstract: Sarbanes-Oxley can bring benefits and heartache to IT security managers. This article demonstrates the advantages and the headaches that the legislation can cause.

Steven Furnell,
Enemies within: the problem of insider attacks,
Computer Fraud & Security,
Volume 2004, Issue 7,
2004,
Pages 6-11,
ISSN 1361-3723,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-3723(04)00087-9.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361372304000879)
Abstract: This article considers the problem of insider attacks, beginning with some survey-based evidence to illustrate the existence of the problem, before proceeding to classify types of internal attacker. By far the most difficult problem to address is that of misuse of legitimate access, and the discussion proceeds to consider approaches to prevention and detection, concluding that a combination of technical and personnel measures represents the most feasible solution.

Bernd Blobel, Ragnar Nordberg, John Mike Davis, Peter Pharow,
Modelling privilege management and access control,
International Journal of Medical Informatics,
Volume 75, Issue 8,
2006,
Pages 597-623,
ISSN 1386-5056,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijmedinf.2005.08.010.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1386505605001747)
Abstract: Summary
Objectives
For establishing trustworthiness in advanced architectures for future-proof health information systems being open, flexible, scaleable, portable, and semantically interoperable, security and privacy services needed must be designed as an inherent part of the architecture. Such architecture has to meet the paradigms of distribution, component orientation, formal modelling, separation of logical and technological aspects, etc.
Methods
In model-driven architectures components providing security and privacy services have to be specified using the same methodology of formal models with meta-languages as expression means, as deployed in computational, technical, or medical domains. The resulting approach must be based on the ISO Reference Model—Open Distributed Processing.
Results
Currently, standards developing organisation are defining emerging tasks and standards for semantic interoperability and trustworthy collaboration for advanced health information systems. Communication security issues have been specified and implemented, while application security challenges such as privilege management and access control are still under development. Therefore, a series of formal models have been developed by the authors covering, e.g. domains, service delegation, claims control, policies, roles, authorisations, and access control. The required models are introduced and interpreted in a generic way. The crucial concept of security policy and its relationship to the other concepts has been considered in detail.
Conclusion
Based on formal models, security services can be integrated into advanced systems architectures enabling semantic interoperability in the context of trustworthiness of communication and co-operation.
Keywords: EHR; Model-driven architecture; Components; Constraint models; Authorisation; Privilege management; Access control; Security infrastructure

Hazel Taylor,
Congruence between risk management theory and practice in Hong Kong vendor-driven IT projects,
International Journal of Project Management,
Volume 23, Issue 6,
2005,
Pages 437-444,
ISSN 0263-7863,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijproman.2005.02.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0263786305000220)
Abstract: This paper reports the findings of an exploratory study comparing risk management practice of project managers from Hong Kong IT vendor firms, with theoretical prescriptions. Prescriptions and practice were closely aligned at pre-sales stages, but there was substantial variation during project implementation. The hand-over from pre-sales to implementation teams was often a weak link, with project managers failing to follow-up risk management plans prepared at pre-sales stage. In particular, gaps in the management of contingencies added to schedule and budget to address specific risks suggest that firms may not be fully benefiting from the contingency planning prepared at pre-sales stage. The importance of ensuring that risk assessors at pre-sales stage were independent of the implementation team was highlighted, but it was noted that this practice might compound the problem of ensuring on-going risk monitoring by removing the implementation manager’s sense of ownership of the risk management plan.
Keywords: IT project risk management; Packaged software; Software project management

Indrakshi Ray, Mahendra Kumar,
Towards a location-based mandatory access control model,
Computers & Security,
Volume 25, Issue 1,
2006,
Pages 36-44,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2005.06.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016740480500101X)
Abstract: With the growing use of wireless networks and mobile devices, we are moving towards an era where location information will be necessary for access control. The use of location information can be used for enhancing the security of an application, and it can also be exploited to launch attacks. For critical applications, such as the military, a formal model for location-based access control is needed that increases the security of the application and ensures that the location information cannot be exploited to cause harm. In this paper, we show how the mandatory access control (MAC) model can be extended to incorporate the notion of location. We also show how the different components in the MAC model are related with location and how this location information can be used to determine whether a subject has access to a given object. This model is suitable for military applications consisting of static and dynamic objects, where location of a subject and object must be considered before granting access.
Keywords: Access control; Bell-Lapadula model

K. Stoupa, A. Vakali,
Clustering subjects in a credential-based access control framework,
Computers & Security,
Volume 26, Issue 2,
2007,
Pages 120-129,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2006.08.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404806001258)
Abstract: Currently, access control of distributed Internet resources (such as files, documents and web services) has become extremely demanding. Several new access control models have been introduced. Most of the proposed approaches increase the complexity of the access control procedure and at the same time expressing these models is becoming complicated. Improving the execution time of the access control procedures is a challenging task due to the increased number of resources (available over the Internet) and the size of the audience involved. In this paper, we introduce an approach for speeding up the access control procedure under an environment accessed by known subjects (i.e. subjects whose identity and attributes are known apriori through a subscription phase). This approach is based on some update functions (employed at the background during idle times) over files which are associated with subjects. The core task of the proposed update is its dynamic nature and its clustering of subjects according to their interests and credentials. Moreover, this work associates subjects with security policies that are most likely to be triggered according to (the subjects) interests. Credential-based access control is considered to properly protect frameworks distributing resources to known subjects and here emphasis is given to the complexity involved in order to decrease the access request evaluation time under a credential-based access control framework.
Keywords: Access control; Clustering users; Credentials; XML-based access control; Access request evaluation time

Aidan Berry, Jenny Robertson,
Overseas bankers in the UK and their use of information for making lending decisions: Changes from 1985,
The British Accounting Review,
Volume 38, Issue 2,
2006,
Pages 175-191,
ISSN 0890-8389,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bar.2005.10.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S089083890500082X)
Abstract: This paper is concerned with the information used by one set of users, namely bankers, and the changes in their usage of information over time. The work replicates and revisits the work of Berry, A., Citron, D., Jarvis, R., 1985. Foreign banks operating in the UK—their information requirements, usage and suggested improvements to financial reporting, implications for the accounting profession. European Accounting Association Conference, Brussels. The population surveyed was drawn from the same source as that used for the earlier study although, as might be expected in a dynamic environment, the individual bankers making up that population were not identical. The results show that accounting information, as a whole, remains a very important source of information informing the bankers' decision-making processes but that the relative importance and usage of the components has changed. Some of these changes are positive in that they suggest that there have been improvements to the information content provided, for example in contrast to the findings of Bartlett, S.A., Chandler, R.A., 1997. The Corporate Report and the private shareholder: Lee and Tweedie twenty years on. British Accounting Review 29, 245–261, the cash flow statement is seen as more important than the profit and loss account or balance sheet. Other changes are perhaps of more concern to accounting standard setters as the results represent a decrease in the perceived importance of key components of financial statements, for example, the audit report and the statement of accounting policies. This supports the earlier findings of Bartlett and Chandler (1997) in respect of the audit report. There is also evidence to suggest that the mix and type of information these bankers are now using has changed since 1985. This may indicate a move toward a greater use of a going concern approach to lending decisions.
Keywords: Banks; Users; Financial reporting; Standards

Bruce J. Nikkel,
Improving evidence acquisition from live network sources,
Digital Investigation,
Volume 3, Issue 2,
2006,
Pages 89-96,
ISSN 1742-2876,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.diin.2006.05.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1742287606000363)
Abstract: The pervasiveness of network technology is causing a shift in the location of digital evidence. What was once largely found on individual disks tied to single individuals is now becoming distributed across remote networked machines, under the control of multiple organizations, and scattered over multiple jurisdictions. The network interactions between these machines are also becoming recognized as a source of network evidence. These live network sources of evidence bring additional challenges which need to be addressed. This paper discusses these issues and suggests some improvements in the methods used for the collection of evidence from live network sources.
Keywords: Network forensics; Live network evidence; Live network acquisition; Live network forensics; NFAT

S.M. Yiu, S.W. Yiu, L.K. Lee, Eric K.Y. Li, Michael C.L. Yip,
Sharing and access right delegation for confidential documents: A practical solution,
Information & Management,
Volume 43, Issue 5,
2006,
Pages 607-616,
ISSN 0378-7206,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.im.2006.03.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378720606000309)
Abstract: This paper addresses a practical problem in document management systems for which no existing solution is currently available in the market. To store confidential documents, a common approach is to keep only the encrypted version of the documents to ensure confidentiality of the contents. In real cases, documents may need to be shared by more than one person or group in a company and it is common for a manager to delegate the access rights of a documents to a delegatee. How is it possible to share encrypted documents and delegate the access rights of encrypted documents? Here, we discuss the issues related to this problem and provide a practical and easy-to-implement solution for solving the problem. It has been shown to be feasible by a prototype implementation. We also show how to extend our solution to be more scalable by taking advantage of the company's hierarchical structure.
Keywords: Document management systems; Access right delegation; Encrypted documents; Shared documents; Public-key infrastructure

Gilles Goncalves, Aneta Poniszewska-Maranda,
Role engineering: From design to evolution of security schemes,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 81, Issue 8,
2008,
Pages 1306-1326,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2007.11.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121207003044)
Abstract: This paper presents a methodology to design the RBAC (Role-Based Access Control) scheme during the design phase of an Information System. Two actors, the component developer and the security administrator, will cooperate to define and set up the minimal set of roles in agreement with the application constraints and the organization constraints that guarantee the global security policy of an enterprise. In order to maintain the global coherence of the existing access control scheme, an algorithm is proposed to detect the possible inconsistencies before the integration of a new component in the Information System.
Keywords: Security of information system; Access control; Role engineering; Role-based access control model; Constraints; UML (Unified Modelling Language)

Mike Kemp,
Barbarians inside the gates: addressing internal security threats,
Network Security,
Volume 2005, Issue 6,
2005,
Pages 11-13,
ISSN 1353-4858,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-4858(05)70247-6.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353485805702476)
Abstract: A common misconception concerning network security is that the infrastructure is at considerable risk from external attackers. Although there is always the opportunity that an enterprise environment may be targeted by a skilled, and above all, patient external attacker, enterprises face a significant challenge in identifying and reacting to, insider attacks. This article focuses on the range of insider based attacks that the enterprise environment may be vulnerable to, as well as methods of responding to an attack and mitigating the risks in the first instance.

Mike Small,
Business and technical motivation for identity management,
Information Security Technical Report,
Volume 9, Issue 1,
2004,
Pages 6-21,
ISSN 1363-4127,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1363-4127(04)00011-1.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1363412704000111)

Yu-Yi Chen, Jinn-Ke Jan, Chin-Ling Chen,
The design of a secure anonymous Internet voting system,
Computers & Security,
Volume 23, Issue 4,
2004,
Pages 330-337,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2004.01.015.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404804000720)
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a very practical and secure anonymous Internet voting protocol. Our scheme does not require a special voting channel and communications can occur entirely over the current Internet. This method integrates Internet convenience and cryptology. Issues such as the kinds of “certificate authority” and “public proxy server” are integrated in our scheme to solve the Internet identification and anonymity problems. This protocol combines the RSA blind signature scheme and secret sharing cryptosystem, to provide a fair and practical election.
Keywords: Electronic voting; Blind signature; Secret sharing; Certificate authority; Proxy server; RSA

Mike Small,
Entitlement management – a practical approach,
Network Security,
Volume 2008, Issue 2,
2008,
Pages 16-19,
ISSN 1353-4858,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-4858(08)70020-5.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353485808700205)
Abstract: In the last issue of Network Security, we discussed the need for entitlements management as a means of enhancing security, and explored the concept of role-based access control (RBAC) as a means of addressing this issue. Having explored the concepts, this article will discuss some of the practical design and implementation options for those considering the deployment of an entitlements management system.

Maria H. Sanchez, Kevin F. Brown, Christopher P. Agoglia,
Consideration of control environment and fraud risk: A set of instructional exercises,
Journal of Accounting Education,
Volume 25, Issue 4,
2007,
Pages 207-221,
ISSN 0748-5751,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaccedu.2007.08.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0748575107000371)
Abstract: Control environment is an abstract concept that can be difficult for students to grasp due to their lack of real-world experience. Recent accounting scandals and the regulatory response of the Sarbanes–Oxley Act of 2002 have highlighted the need for future auditors to be able to recognize red flags indicating the possibility of fraudulent financial reporting (FFR) and misappropriation of assets (MOA). This manuscript contains a set of four instructional exercises. The exercises are designed to promote critical thinking by exposing students to scenarios that require them to assess and integrate evidence regarding hypothetical clients’ control environments. Evidence is collected in realistic working papers (accessed via the web at http://www.pages.drexel.edu/~cpa22/Audit/audit.htm) that are based on evidence-gathering questionnaires from Big Four accounting firms. Using this evidence, students consider the risk of FFR and MOA. Student reaction to using the exercises, from three different institutions, has been positive.
Keywords: Fraud risk; Control environment; Risk assessment

Martin Gilar, Amy E. Daly, Marianna Kele, Uwe D. Neue, John C. Gebler,
Implications of column peak capacity on the separation of complex peptide mixtures in single- and two-dimensional high-performance liquid chromatography,
Journal of Chromatography A,
Volume 1061, Issue 2,
2004,
Pages 183-192,
ISSN 0021-9673,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chroma.2004.10.092.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0021967304019697)
Abstract: Column peak capacity was utilized as a measure of column efficiency for gradient elution conditions. Peak capacity was evaluated experimentally for reversed-phase (RP) and cation-exchange high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) columns, and compared to the values predicted from RP-HPLC gradient theory. The model was found to be useful for the prediction of peak capacity and productivity in single- and two-dimensional (2D) chromatography. Both theoretical prediction and experimental data suggest that the number of peaks separated in HPLC reaches an upper limit, despite using highly efficient columns or very shallow gradients. The practical peak capacity value is about several hundred for state-of-the-art RP-HPLC columns. Doubling the column length (efficiency) improves the peak capacity by only 40%, and proportionally increases both the separation time and the backpressure. Similarly, extremely shallow gradients have a positive effect on the peak capacity, but analysis becomes unacceptably long. The model predicts that a 2D-HPLC peak capacity of 15,000 can be achieved in 8h using multiple fraction collection in the first dimension followed by fast RP-HPLC gradients employing short, but efficient columns in the second dimension.
Keywords: High-performance liquid chromatography; Column peak capacity; Two-dimensional (2D); Proteomic

Jian-gang CHEN, Ru-chuan WANG, Hai-yan WANG,
The extended RBAC model based on grid computing,
The Journal of China Universities of Posts and Telecommunications,
Volume 13, Issue 3,
2006,
Pages 93-97,
ISSN 1005-8885,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1005-8885(07)60019-3.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1005888507600193)
Abstract: This article proposes the extended role-based access control (RBAC) model for solving dynamic and multidomain problems in grid computing, The formulated description of the model has been provided. The introduction of context and the mapping relations of context-to-role and context-to-permission help the model adapt to dynamic property in grid environment. The multidomain role inheritance relation by the authorization agent service realizes the multidomain authorization amongst the autonomy domain. A function has been proposed for solving the role inheritance conflict during the establishment of the multidomain role inheritance relation.
Keywords: grid computing; RBAC; context; multi-domain

Bob Ritchie, Esamaddin Khorwatt,
The attitude of Libyan auditors to inherent control risk assessment,
The British Accounting Review,
Volume 39, Issue 1,
2007,
Pages 39-59,
ISSN 0890-8389,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bar.2006.11.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0890838906001247)
Abstract: Previous empirical evidence contradicts the practices of audit risk assessment recommended by the professional auditing standards. Key differences represent the presumption that auditors can readily distinguish between different categories of risk, how they assess such risks in practice, their application to the different account levels and their capacity to differentiate between what may constitute potentially high or low risks. The paper addresses these differences in the context of the Libyan auditors’ perceptions and practices. The nature and development of the audit profession in Libya makes this a good comparator for the US and UK contexts of audit behaviour. Equally importantly, the religious, political and socio-cultural context combined with Libya's role as an emergent economy is representative of many other economies in the world, thus providing a good comparator for assessing the validity and applicability of the established auditing management principles and procedures. One hundred and sixty four practicing auditors in Libya were investigated, initially by questionnaire and subsequently interview of a smaller sample of 20 auditors. The evidence reinforces prior empirical evidence that inherent and control risks are assessed interdependently, auditors are aware of the risk differentials depending on the level of account and are cognizant of factors normally associated with potentially high and low risk levels.
Keywords: Audit risk; Inherent risk; Control risk; Audit risk assessment; Audit risk model; Risk-based auditing

S.H. (Basie) von Solms,
Information Security Governance – Compliance management vs operational management,
Computers & Security,
Volume 24, Issue 6,
2005,
Pages 443-447,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2005.07.003.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404805001057)
Abstract: This paper discusses the difference that should exist between Information Security Operational Management and Information Security Compliance Management. The paper argues that for good Information Security Governance, good IT Governance and good Corporate Governance, these two dimensions of Information Security Management should be totally separate, and housed in separate departments.
Keywords: Information security; Information security management; Information technology governance; Corporate governance; Operational management; Compliance management; Risk management

Carla Carnaghan,
Business process modeling approaches in the context of process level audit risk assessment: An analysis and comparison,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 7, Issue 2,
2006,
Pages 170-204,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2005.10.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089506000303)
Abstract: Current auditing standards emphasize the importance of auditors gaining a broader understanding of an organization's operations to perform risk assessment (i.e. assess the risks of material misstatement). Auditors' ability to effectively analyze operations in the form of business processes is by definition a key determinant of their ability to appropriately plan and conduct the audit. However, to date there has been little consideration of how best to represent or organize the information required about business processes for audit risk assessment purposes. This paper identifies a number of commonly used business process modeling conventions, and characterizes them relative to the needs of auditors in performing risk assessments at the business process level. To provide a context for the process modeling conventions examined, international standards on enterprise modeling are outlined, and the constructs they identify are compared to those identified as needed for process level risk assessment. This comparison helps provide some assurance that the knowledge needed for audit risk assessment at the process level is similar to that needed for management understanding and control of business processes more generally. A number of commonly used business process modeling conventions are identified based on a literature review, including data flow diagrams, system flowcharts, REA models, event process chains, IDEF0 and IDEF3, UML diagrams, and business process diagrams (BPMN). The constructs represented in each of these models are compared to those identified as needed for process level audit risk assessment, and the merits of each convention are discussed. The paper concludes by noting particular areas where additional research is needed before more definitive answers regarding which process modeling conventions are most appropriate for auditor use are possible.
Keywords: Business process models; Diagrams; Audit; Risk assessment

Eric Jui-Lin Lu, Rai-Fu Chen,
Design and implementation of a fine-grained menu control processor for web-based information systems,
Future Generation Computer Systems,
Volume 19, Issue 7,
2003,
Pages 1105-1119,
ISSN 0167-739X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0167-739X(03)00108-0.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X03001080)
Abstract: Web-based information systems (WISs) have become mainstream systems on the Internet and are widely deployed by enterprises worldwide. Although it is extremely important to secure access to WISs, the development of access control for WISs is still in its infancy stage. In addition, existing access control models for web applications are not suitable for WISs. In this paper, we proposed an access control model, called X-Menu, for WISs. Also, a prototype had been designed and implemented. The proposed model provides fine-grained control up to the element level of documents and is flexible and secured. The maintenance cost of the proposed model is low, and the proposed model can prevent users from performing any unauthorized task.
Keywords: WIS; Access control; XML; Fine-grained control

Nabil Adam, Ahmet Kozanoglu, Aabhas Paliwal, Basit Shafiq,
Secure Information Sharing in a Virtual Multi-Agency Team Environment,
Electronic Notes in Theoretical Computer Science,
Volume 179,
2007,
Pages 97-109,
ISSN 1571-0661,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.entcs.2006.08.034.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1571066107003064)
Abstract: This paper proposes a two tier RBAC approach for secure and selective information sharing among virtual multi-agency response team (VMART) and allows expansion of the VMART by admitting new collaborators (government agencies or NGOs) as need arise. A coordinator Web Service for each member agency is proposed. The coordinator Web Service is responsible for authentication, information dissemination, information acquisition, role creation and enforcement of predefined access control policies. Secure, selective and fine-grained information sharing is realized through the encryption of XML documents according to RBAC policies defined for the corresponding XML schema.
Keywords: XML; RBAC; Virtual Team; Access Control; Information Sharing; SOA; Web Services

Paloma Díaz, Ignacio Aedo,
Towards efficient web engineering approaches through flexible process models,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 80, Issue 8,
2007,
Pages 1375-1389,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2006.10.042.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121206003001)
Abstract: After more than a decade of web developments and some deafening fiascos, it has become clear that it is not possible to face the development of large scale web systems without following a systematic and well-defined process to guarantee quality, measurability, maintainability and reusability. There are a number of hypermedia/web engineering methods that provide mechanisms to specify the product requirements, including those concerning structure, navigation, interaction, presentation and access. But apart from product requirements there are also process requirements which in the web arena are constantly changing. Hence, to be put in practice without disturbing the project goals nor compromising its success, methods have to rely on empirical and flexible process models that can be easily adapted to fit process requirements. Little attention has been paid to the process model in most hypermedia/web methods which usually apply a classical iterative process based on the use of prototypes that are tested with users. In this paper we describe how we did apply the ADM web engineering method following a flexible star life cycle in the context of a specific web project highlighting the main benefits of this approach. In particular we will describe the different cycles applied in the ARCE project, illustrating the application of a usability engineering life cycle in a real case.
Keywords: Web engineering; Model-driven development; User-centered development; User interfaces; Access modelling

J.H.P. Eloff, M.M. Eloff,
Information security architecture,
Computer Fraud & Security,
Volume 2005, Issue 11,
2005,
Pages 10-16,
ISSN 1361-3723,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-3723(05)70275-X.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S136137230570275X)
Abstract: To work best information security must be holistic and fit into a company seamlessly. The practice should take account of personnel security, user access control, network security and regulatory aspects. Holistic security should integrate technology, people and processes. Information security architecture is a concept that specialists have come up with to achieve this. It is a management process intertwined into the day-to-day business operations of a company. The big problem is that no standardised architecture exists. Different researchers and groups have tried their hand at defining a framework that includes: BS 7799 ISO Part 2 Multi-planes model. PFIRES Meta Security Group ISA by Tudor Some focus on technical issues, while others focus on security policy. Some are merely methodologies that do not mention technological issues or the importance of a security culture. An information security architecture should make suggestions on how different controls can be synchronised… Implementing information security is a complex, time-consuming and costly process. Codes of practice for information security management indicate that information security is a multidisciplinary concept cutting horizontally across an. All aspects regarding information security must be addressed in a well-structured and holistic manner, failure of which may result in information infrastructures that are far less secure, with far more frequent and damaging security breaches. Information security experts have responded to this demand for a holistic approach towards the implementation of information security by introducing the concept of an information security architecture. The problem, however, is that no standardised, comprehensive information security architecture currently exists. This paper presents a state-of-the-art overview of distinguishable approaches, all attempting to define an information security architecture. This is followed by a proposition of requirements for an integrated Information Security Architecture (ISA).

Norman T. Sheehan,
The Coffee Pot: A management control exercise,
Journal of Accounting Education,
Volume 25, Issue 4,
2007,
Pages 193-206,
ISSN 0748-5751,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaccedu.2007.08.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0748575107000383)
Abstract: Managers use management control systems to actively steer their organizations towards strategic success. The Coffee Pot is a short, in-class exercise that provides a hands-on opportunity for students to diagnose and solve an organization’s management control issues using Simons’ Levers of Control Framework. The exercise features a chain of coffee shops, a business most students should be familiar with, and asks students to discuss why the new CEO is having trouble improving her firm’s performance, even after she has introduced a winning strategy.
Keywords: Management control; Competitive analysis; Levers of control

Michael Alles, Gerard Brennan, Alexander Kogan, Miklos A. Vasarhelyi,
Continuous monitoring of business process controls: A pilot implementation of a continuous auditing system at Siemens,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 7, Issue 2,
2006,
Pages 137-161,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2005.10.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089506000273)
Abstract: In this paper we report on the approach we have developed and the lessons we have learned in an implementation of the monitoring and control layer for continuous monitoring of business process controls (CMBPC) in the US internal IT audit department of Siemens Corporation. The architecture developed by us implements a completely independent CMBPC system running on top of Siemens’ own enterprise information system which has read-only interaction with the application tier of the enterprise system. Among our key conclusions is that “formalizability” of audit procedures and audit judgment is grossly underestimated. Additionally, while cost savings and expedience force the implementation to closely follow the existing and approved internal audit program, a certain level of reengineering of audit processes is inevitable due to the necessity to separate formalizable and non-formalizable parts of the program. Our study identifies the management of audit alarms and the prevention of the alarm floods as critical tasks in the CMBPC implementation process. We develop an approach to solving these problems utilizing the hierarchical structure of alarms and the role-based approach to assigning alarm destinations. We also discuss the content of the audit trail of CMBPC.
Keywords: Continuous auditing; Continuous monitoring of business processes; Controls; Control settings; Monitoring; Formalization; Automation; Reengineering

J.H.A.M. Grijpink,
Trend report on biometrics: Some new insights, experiences and developments,
Computer Law & Security Review,
Volume 24, Issue 3,
2008,
Pages 261-264,
ISSN 0267-3649,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clsr.2008.01.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0267364908000022)
Abstract: Many aspects of biometrics remain far from being settled. This trend report sets out a number of relevant insights, experiences and developments in that regard. The report is based on the Jubilee Conference of the Netherlands Biometrics Forum (15 February 2007, The Hague) and the National Biometrics Conference (20 September 2007, Utrecht). Two trends appear to be exerting a stronger influence on the future of biometrics in society:1.identity management and identity fraud prevention are becoming dominant aspects and2.technology continues to develop, increasingly from a security perspective.

Adrian Yeow, Siew Kien Sia,
Negotiating “best practices” in package software implementation,
Information and Organization,
Volume 18, Issue 1,
2008,
Pages 1-28,
ISSN 1471-7727,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infoandorg.2007.07.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1471772707000309)
Abstract: Package software is often marketed with the promise of offering cutting-edge “best practices”. However, questions remain as to how diverse groups in an organization arrive at a consensus about what constitutes as “best practices” in package software and how these “best practices” are appropriated to the specific local contexts. In this case study, we examine the incongruence in the technological frames of the diverse groups with respect to these “best practices” and trace how these groups implement specific political and discursive strategies to overcome and resolve these incongruent frames. We find that it is an intricate process that demands not only that management make a concerted effort to create and actively work to coax and sustain allies, but also champion, and advocate for the rhetorical justification behind these “best practices.” The negotiated frames of parties are eventually inscribed into the software itself.
Keywords: Technological frame; Power and politic; Discursive strategy; Best practices; IT implementation

Matthew Pemble,
Investigating around mainframes and other high-end systems: the revenge of big iron,
Digital Investigation,
Volume 1, Issue 2,
2004,
Pages 90-93,
ISSN 1742-2876,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.diin.2004.04.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1742287604000349)
Abstract: Normal computer forensic tools and techniques are ineffective or inefficient when applied to mainframes or other very large systems. Incidents involving mainframes are likely to have a significant business impact, so preparation is essential, both of any specialist tools and of staff with mainframe experience. Proper design of system audit logs can also provide admissible material of evidential weight, without the requirement for forensic treatment.
Keywords: Mainframe; Audit; Investigation; Forensic; Log

Cath Everett,
Privateer repels boarders,
Infosecurity Today,
Volume 1, Issue 3,
2004,
Pages 24-26,
ISSN 1742-6847,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1742-6847(04)00064-3.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1742684704000643)
Abstract: Far from being a software pirate, ISS's Pete Privateer would like to shore up the defences against freebooting hackers.

Glenn Benson,
Portable security transaction protocol,
Computer Networks,
Volume 51, Issue 3,
2007,
Pages 751-766,
ISSN 1389-1286,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2006.06.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1389128606001368)
Abstract: The Portal Security Transaction Protocol (PSTP) is a new signature technology that adds signature semantics to one-time password technology. PSTP was developed to secure transactions in the financial services industry; however, PSTP may be applicable to signatures in other spaces. PSTP technology provides high signature strength of mechanism without requiring asymmetric key pairs deployed to client machines. PSTP provides cryptographic after-the-fact evidence of a transaction event in a secured log.
Keywords: Security; Authentication; Signature; One-time password; PKI; Financial institution; Bank; Non-repudiation; Key management; Security protocols; Data integrity; Entropy; Consequential evidence

Hollis Ashbaugh-Skaife, Daniel W. Collins, William R. Kinney,
The discovery and reporting of internal control deficiencies prior to SOX-mandated audits,
Journal of Accounting and Economics,
Volume 44, Issues 1–2,
2007,
Pages 166-192,
ISSN 0165-4101,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jacceco.2006.10.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165410106000899)
Abstract: We use internal control deficiency (ICD) disclosures prior to mandated internal control audits to investigate economic factors that expose firms to control failures and managements’ incentives to discover and report control problems. We find that, relative to non-disclosers, firms disclosing ICDs have more complex operations, recent organizational changes, greater accounting risk, more auditor resignations and have fewer resources available for internal control. Regarding incentives to discover and report internal control problems, ICD firms have more prior SEC enforcement actions and financial restatements, are more likely to use a dominant audit firm, and have more concentrated institutional ownership.
Keywords: Internal control; Auditing; Regulation; SOX

Emrah Tomur, Y.M. Erten,
Application of temporal and spatial role based access control in 802.11 wireless networks,
Computers & Security,
Volume 25, Issue 6,
2006,
Pages 452-458,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2006.05.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404806000927)
Abstract: In this study, we have investigated the security aspects of wireless local area networks and discussed the weaknesses associated with various conventional 802.11 security protocols such as WEP and 802.1X. We propose an architecture to control access to 802.11 wireless networks, based on roles, location and time information, using the tested wired network components such as VPNs and Firewalls. The presented architecture, in which temporal and spatial RBAC is implemented, reduces the security risks in enterprise level deployment of wireless LANs.
Keywords: 802.11; WLAN; Wireless; Security; RBAC

Andrea Pasquinucci,
Web voting, security and cryptography,
Computer Fraud & Security,
Volume 2007, Issue 3,
2007,
Pages 5-8,
ISSN 1361-3723,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-3723(07)70033-7.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361372307700337)
Abstract: Estonia is the first country in the world to allow online voting in its national election. But this month, Computer Fraud & Security features an exclusive article from security consultant Andrea Pasquinucci, which argues that online voting is not yet fraud-proof enough for political elections. He believes online voting is not secure enough to guarantee that votes cannot be sold. He recommends that Web voting should not be used in cases where democracy could be put in jeopardy such as in political elections. But he believes it is acceptable for opinion polls. According to Pasquinucci, Web voting is far from mature and very much work in progress. Cryptography should not be seen as the Holy Grail for handling the end-to-end voting process, as it is often difficult to use, he says. Estonia – casting a vote of trust in the Internet •Estonians were allowed to vote online for the 4 March 2007 national election.•The country tested Internet voting in 2005 in local elections.•To vote, they insert their chipped national identity card into a reader attached to a computer. He points out the many weak points in digital systems that introduce loopholes in voting. Network connections are one example where privacy might be at risk. In practice, it is difficult to design perfect anonymous networks. Yet, during the voting process, it is essential that the IP address of the voter's PC is concealed from the Web server. He recommends that online authentication should not be performed by the same Web server that processes the votes. It is important because the authentication server needs to know who the voters are, but the vote server must not recognize who is voting. Both must be kept completely separate. The vote Web server must also be able to protect votes from manipulation before they are counted. This is achieved by encrypting each vote with the public key of the electoral committee, which means that the votes can only be decrypted with the corresponding private key, which must be key safe until the time to count votes arrives. Andrea Pasquinucci delves into the dangers to democracy of online voting and looks at how it can be made safer to cast a ballot online.

Andrea Omicini, Alessandro Ricci, Mirko Viroli,
RBAC for Organisation and Security in an Agent Coordination Infrastructure,
Electronic Notes in Theoretical Computer Science,
Volume 128, Issue 5,
2005,
Pages 65-85,
ISSN 1571-0661,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.entcs.2004.11.045.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1571066105001994)
Abstract: More and more the engineering of complex agent-based systems calls for infrastructural support for coordination and security issues integrated with services for the description and management of system organisation. This trend is evident in the state-of-the-art models adopted for the man- agement of security and organisation of complex information systems: in this context Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) models are emerging as a reference architecture for integrating security issues – access control in particular – and (role-based) organisation management. In this paper we discuss how an RBAC-like model has been fruitfully exploited to extend an infrastructure for the coordination of agent-based systems – TuCSoN – with the support for organisation and security management, in particular as far as access control is concerned.
Keywords: Role-based access control; multi-agent systems; coordination infrastructure

Ashley Brinson, Abigail Robinson, Marcus Rogers,
A cyber forensics ontology: Creating a new approach to studying cyber forensics,
Digital Investigation,
Volume 3, Supplement,
2006,
Pages 37-43,
ISSN 1742-2876,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.diin.2006.06.008.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1742287606000703)
Abstract: The field of cyber forensics, still in its infancy, possesses a strong need for direction and definition. Areas of specialty within a professional environment, certifications, and/or curriculum development are still questioned. With the continued need to standardize parts of the field, methodologies need to be created that will allow for uniformity and direction. This paper focuses on creating an ontological for the purpose of finding the correct layers for specialization, certification, and education within the cyber forensics domain. There is very little information available on this topic and what is present, seems to be somewhat varied. This underscores the importance of creating a method for defining the correct levels of education, certification and specialization. This ontology can also be used to develop curriculum and educational materials. This paper is meant to spark discussion and further research into the topic.
Keywords: Ontology; Model; Cyber forensics; Curriculum; Certification; Specialization

Abiola Abimbola,
Information security incident response,
Network Security,
Volume 2007, Issue 12,
2007,
Pages 10-13,
ISSN 1353-4858,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-4858(07)70103-4.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353485807701034)
Abstract: As computer technology and the internet becomes rapidly dispersed, employees are encountering more ethically difficult situations than ever before. Despite the fact that organisations have developed and implemented a number of security countermeasures, computer abuse continues to be a problem.1

F.L. Gutiérrez Vela, J.L. Isla Montes, P. Paderewski Rodríguez, M. Sánchez Román, B. Jiménez Valverde,
An architecture for access control management in collaborative enterprise systems based on organization models,
Science of Computer Programming,
Volume 66, Issue 1,
2007,
Pages 44-59,
ISSN 0167-6423,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scico.2006.10.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167642306002474)
Abstract: One of the most important characteristics of current enterprise systems is the existence of collaborative processes where different users/subsystems communicate and cooperate in order to carry out common activities. In these processes, shared resources are often used and there are complex relationships between activities and users, so the definition and administration of different security levels (tasks, users, resources, etc.) is necessary. In this article, we shall focus on an important dimension related to the security aspect of collaborative systems: access control. We shall use an organization model that considers the necessary elements to represent authorization and access control aspects in enterprise systems. This model is used in a service-oriented architecture (SOA) in order to facilitate the implementation of a service which is responsible for these important functions. Finally, we shall propose the use of a pattern definition language at a conceptual level to facilitate the modelling of the organizational structures of an enterprise system. We shall specify organization patterns that will help us define general models which can be applied in different situations.
Keywords: Collaborative system; Software architecture; Enterprise architecture; Role-based access control; Organization patterns

Calum Macleod,
The password that's overstayed its welcome,
Network Security,
Volume 2006, Issue 1,
2006,
Pages 13-15,
ISSN 1353-4858,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1353-4858(06)70324-5.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353485806703245)
Abstract: The vast majority of back-end applications have got pre-defined passwords that never change. Many IT auditors, CSOs, and IT security staff live daily with the fear of misuse of passwords which have lingered in the system long after they should have expired. It is highly likely that there is not a single business-critical application in your company that isn't wide open. Though so often overlooked – this ‘back door’ is left open in every corporate network today.

Selma Limam Mansar, Hajo A. Reijers,
Best practices in business process redesign: validation of a redesign framework,
Computers in Industry,
Volume 56, Issue 5,
2005,
Pages 457-471,
ISSN 0166-3615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2005.01.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166361505000205)
Abstract: A fundamental challenge in any Business Process Redesign (BPR) project is to come up with a new process design that is in one or more ways superior to the existing plan. Based on earlier research, a framework to help the designer in selecting the proper best practice(s) for this purpose is presented and validated in this paper. It is described how the framework is used in generating improved process designs for two Dutch organisations. Furthermore, the results from a survey are presented, which has been carried out among BPR practitioners in the UK and the Netherlands to test the framework. The overall conclusion is that the framework is indeed helpful in supporting process redesign and that its core elements are recognised and put in practice by the BPR practitioner community. The framework, therefore, may be of direct interest to both academics and practitioners active in the process improvement field.
Keywords: BPR; Case study; Survey; Framework; Best practices

Yan Zhang, Jian Zhou, Nan Zhou,
Audit committee quality, auditor independence, and internal control weaknesses,
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy,
Volume 26, Issue 3,
2007,
Pages 300-327,
ISSN 0278-4254,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaccpubpol.2007.03.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0278425407000208)
Abstract: In this paper we investigate the relation between audit committee quality, auditor independence, and the disclosure of internal control weaknesses after the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We begin with a sample of firms with internal control weaknesses and, based on industry, size, and performance, match these firms to a sample of control firms without internal control weaknesses. Our conditional logit analyses indicate that a relation exists between audit committee quality, auditor independence, and internal control weaknesses. Firms are more likely to be identified with an internal control weakness, if their audit committees have less financial expertise or, more specifically, have less accounting financial expertise and non-accounting financial expertise. They are also more likely to be identified with an internal control weakness, if their auditors are more independent. In addition, firms with recent auditor changes are more likely to have internal control weaknesses.
Keywords: Internal control weakness; Audit committee financial expertise; Auditor independence; Sarbanes-Oxley Act

I-Chiu Chang, Hsin-Ginn Hwang, David C. Yen, Hen-Yi Huang,
An empirical study of the factors affecting Internet security for the financial industry in Taiwan,
Telematics and Informatics,
Volume 23, Issue 4,
2006,
Pages 343-364,
ISSN 0736-5853,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tele.2005.11.001.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0736585305000614)
Abstract: Security is a pre-requisite for internet banking. The purpose of this study is to explore the factors that are important to the implementation of Internet security of different types of financial institutes. A questionnaire survey was conducted on all types of financial institutions in Taiwan. A total of 573 questionnaires were mailed out to CIOs in domestic financial institutions with a response rate of 11.69%. The results of the study showed that different types of financial institutions have significantly different levels of concern in terms of factors such as the concern of software systems, hardware security, executives support, internal Internet system users, organizational characteristics, and organizational security policy. The implications of this study are discussed and suggestions for future research are presented.
Keywords: Internet; Internet privacy; Internet security

Jacques Wainer, Akhil Kumar, Paulo Barthelmess,
DW-RBAC: A formal security model of delegation and revocation in workflow systems,
Information Systems,
Volume 32, Issue 3,
2007,
Pages 365-384,
ISSN 0306-4379,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2005.11.008.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306437905001122)
Abstract: One reason workflow systems have been criticized as being inflexible is that they lack support for delegation. This paper shows how delegation can be introduced in a workflow system by extending the role-based access control (RBAC) model. The current RBAC model is a security mechanism to implement access control in organizations by allowing users to be assigned to roles and privileges to be associated with the roles. Thus, users can perform tasks based on the privileges possessed by their own role or roles they inherit by virtue of their organizational position. However, there is no easy way to handle delegations within this model. This paper tries to treat the issues surrounding delegation in workflow systems in a comprehensive way. We show how delegations can be incorporated into the RBAC model in a simple and straightforward manner. The new extended model is called RBAC with delegation in a workflow context (DW-RBAC). It allows for delegations to be specified from a user to another user, and later revoked when the delegation is no longer required. The implications of such specifications and their subsequent revocations are examined. Several formal definitions for assertion, acceptance, execution and revocation are provided, and proofs are given for the important properties of our delegation framework.
Keywords: Workflow; Access control; Delegation; Role-based access control; Security

Hsueh-Ju Chen, Shaio-Yan Huang, Chung-Long Kuo,
Using the artificial neural network to predict fraud litigation: Some empirical evidence from emerging markets,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 36, Issue 2, Part 1,
2009,
Pages 1478-1484,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2007.11.030.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417407006045)
Abstract: Detecting corporate fraud and assessing the relative risk factors have been significant issues confronting the auditing profession for decades. This study therefore aims to apply a neural network system to predict fraud litigation for assisting accountants on audit strategy making. The empirical results show that neural network provides not only a promising predicting accuracy, but also a better detecting power and a less misclassification cost comparing with that of a logit model and auditor judgments. This suggests that an artificial intelligence technique is quite well in identifying a fraud-lawsuit presence, and hence could be a supportive tool for practitioners. Further, a remarkable finding related to the greater effects of management’s capability on fraud commitments acquires an attentive investigation of ethic issues in emerging markets where contribute the most important force in the global economy nowadays.
Keywords: Neural network; Internal controls; Fraud; Auditing

Shih-Chien Chou, Wei-Chuan Hsu, Wei-Kuang Lo,
DPE/PAC: decentralized process engine with product access control,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 76, Issue 3,
2005,
Pages 207-219,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2004.05.011.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121204000925)
Abstract: This paper proposes a process engine called DPE/PAC (decentralized process engine with product access control). It can be embedded in a PSEE (process-centered software engineering environment) to decentralize the PSEE. In a decentralized PSEE, every site can enact process programs and therefore the workload of the PSEE’s sites is balanced (i.e., no site will become a bottleneck). Moreover, when a site is down, other sites can enact process programs. Therefore, a decentralized PSEE overcomes the following drawbacks of a traditional client/server PSEEs: (a) the server may become a bottleneck and (b) when the server is down, the entire process should be suspended. In addition to decentralizing PSEEs, DPE/PAC offers an additional function, which is ensuring secure product access (including the enforcement of separation-of-duty constraints). The function is essential for a software process that develops sensitive software systems.
Keywords: Software process; Process-centered software engineering environment (PSEE); Decentralized PSEE; Access control

Effiezal A. Abdul Wahab, Janice C.Y. How, Peter Verhoeven,
The Impact of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance: Compliance, Institutional Investors and Stock Performance,
Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics,
Volume 3, Issue 2,
2007,
Pages 106-129,
ISSN 1815-5669,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1815-5669(10)70025-4.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1815566910700254)
Abstract: In 2001, the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (MCCG) became an integral part of the Bursa Malaysia Listing Rules, which requires all listed firms to disclose the extent of compliance with the MCCG. Our panel analysis of 440 firms from 1999 to 2002 finds that corporate governance reform in Malaysia has been successful, with a significant improvement in governance practices. The relationship between ownership by the Employees Provident Fund (EPF) and corporate governance has strengthened during the period subsequent to the reform, in line with the lead role taken by the EPF in establishing the Minority Shareholders Watchdog Group. The implementation of MCCG has had a substantial effect on shareholders' wealth, increasing stock prices by an average of about 4.8%. Although there is no evidence that politically connected firms perform better, political connections do have a significantly negative effect on corporate governance, which is mitigated by institutional ownership.
Keywords: G21; G22; G23; G32; G34; corporate governance; institutional investors; stock performance; political connections

Guido Boella, Leendert van der Torre,
Substantive and procedural norms in normative multiagent systems,
Journal of Applied Logic,
Volume 6, Issue 2,
2008,
Pages 152-171,
ISSN 1570-8683,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jal.2007.06.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1570868307000535)
Abstract: Procedural norms are instrumental norms addressed to agents playing a role in the normative system, for example to motivate these role playing agents to recognize violations or to apply sanctions. Procedural norms have first been discussed in law, where they address legal practitioners such as legislators, lawyers and policemen, but they are discussed now too in normative multiagent systems to motivate software agents. Procedural norms aim to achieve the social order specified using regulative norms like obligations and permissions, and constitutive norms like counts-as obligations. In this paper we formalize procedural, regulative and constitutive norms using input/output logic enriched with an agent ontology and an abstraction hierarchy. We show how our formalization explains Castelfranchi's notion of mutual empowerment, stating that not only the agents playing a role in a normative system are empowered by the normative system, but the normative system itself is also empowered by the agents playing a role in it. In our terminology, the agents are not only institutionally empowered, but they are also delegated normative goals from the system. Together, institutional empowerment and normative goal delegation constitute a mechanism which we call delegation of power, where agents acting on behalf of the normative system become in charge of recognizing which institutional facts follow from brute facts.
Keywords: Deontic logic; Multiagent systems; Normative systems; Procedural norms

Simon N. Foley,
Believing the Integrity of a System: (Invited Talk),
Electronic Notes in Theoretical Computer Science,
Volume 125, Issue 1,
2005,
Pages 3-12,
ISSN 1571-0661,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.entcs.2004.09.037.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1571066105000708)
Abstract: An integrity policy defines the situations when modification of information is authorised and is enforced by the protection mechanisms of a system. Traditional models of protection tend to define integrity in terms of ad-hoc authorisation techniques whose effectiveness are justified more on the basis of experience and "best practice" rather than on any theoretical foundation. In a complex application system it is possible that an integrity policy may have been incorrectly configured, or that the protection mechanisms are inadequate, resulting in an unexpected system compromise. This paper examines the meaning of integrity and and describes a simple belief logic approach for analysing the integrity of a system configuration.
Keywords: Security; Integrity; Security Protocols; Belief logics; System Configuration

Robert Crook, Darrel Ince, Bashar Nuseibeh,
Modelling access policies using roles in requirements engineering,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 45, Issue 14,
2003,
Pages 979-991,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0950-5849(03)00097-1.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584903000971)
Abstract: Pressures are increasing on organisations to take an early and more systematic approach to security. A key to enforcing security is to restrict access to valuable assets. We regard access policies as security requirements that specify such restrictions. Current requirements engineering methods are generally inadequate for eliciting and analysing these types of requirements, because they do not allow complex organisational structures and procedures that underlie policies to be represented adequately. This paper discusses roles and why they are important in the analysis of security. The paper relates roles to organisational theory and how they could be employed to define access policies. A framework is presented, based on these concepts, for analysing access policies.
Keywords: Access policies; Security requirements; Roles

Duen-Ren Liu, Mei-Yu Wu, Shu-Teng Lee,
Role-based authorizations for workflow systems in support of task-based separation of duty,
Journal of Systems and Software,
Volume 73, Issue 3,
2004,
Pages 375-387,
ISSN 0164-1212,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0164-1212(03)00175-4.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121203001754)
Abstract: Role-based authorizations for assigning tasks of workflows to roles/users are crucial to security management in workflow management systems. The authorizations must enforce separation of duty (SoD) constraints to prevent fraud and errors. This work analyzes and defines several duty-conflict relationships among tasks, and designs authorization rules to enforce SoD constraints based on the analysis. A novel authorization model that incorporates authorization rules is then proposed to support the planning of assigning tasks to roles/users, and the run-time activation of tasks. Different from existing work, the proposed authorization model considers the AND/XOR split structures of workflows and execution dependency among tasks to enforce separation of duties in assigning tasks to roles/users. A prototype system is developed to realize the effectiveness of the proposed authorization model.
Keywords: Workflow system; Separation of duty; Role-based access control; Authorization management

Sejong Oh, Seog Park,
Task–role-based access control model,
Information Systems,
Volume 28, Issue 6,
2003,
Pages 533-562,
ISSN 0306-4379,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0306-4379(02)00029-7.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306437902000297)
Abstract: There are many information objects and users in a large company. It is an important issue how to control user's access in order that only authorized user can access information objects. Traditional access control models—discretionary access control, mandatory access control, and role-based access control—do not properly reflect the characteristics of enterprise environment. This paper proposes an improved access control model for enterprise environment. The characteristics of access control in an enterprise environment are examined and a task–role-based access control (T–RBAC) model founded on concept of classification of tasks is introduced. Task is a fundamental unit of business work or business activity. T–RBAC deals with each task differently according to its class, and supports task level access control and supervision role hierarchy. T–RBAC is a suitable access control model for industrial companies.
Keywords: Access control; RBAC; Enterprise environment; Task; Role

Jacques R. Lemieux,
Integrity and the quality of information: Part 1,
Computer Fraud & Security,
Volume 1997, Issue 3,
1997,
Pages 15-19,
ISSN 1361-3723,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-3723(97)83579-8.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361372397835798)
Abstract: In the information systems security community, the process of maintaining integrity has long been understood as the implementation of a set of safeguards against unauthorized modification of information. This point of view, which comes from the military world, is now seriously challenged: integrity could simply be seen as the ability to maintain an acceptable level of quality of information. This article discusses the general concept of quality and gives an overview of the various quality dimensions of information. It then discusses the factors that may ensure and impair the quality of information when it is captured, propagated and used.

R.Alan Webb,
The impact of reputation and variance investigations on the creation of budget slack,
Accounting, Organizations and Society,
Volume 27, Issues 4–5,
2002,
Pages 361-378,
ISSN 0361-3682,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0361-3682(01)00034-4.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0361368201000344)
Abstract: Experimental research and survey studies have yielded conflicting findings about the conditions under which budget slack is likely to arise. This study begins to reconcile the contradictory evidence by examining the impact of two features of the organizational context in which budget decisions are made: reputation concerns and variance investigations. The results of a laboratory experiment show concern for maintaining a favourable reputation leads to lower budget slack as does the existence of a variance investigation policy. The findings extend the agency theory framework by incorporating both pecuniary and non-pecuniary features that influence behavior when budgets have consequences beyond the immediate period. The results also suggest reputation concerns and control system features may serve as cost-effective substitutes for exhaustive incentive contracting in practical settings.

Ed Hutt,
Fault tolerant auditing,
Computer Audit Update,
Volume 1994, Supplement 2,
1994,
Pages 31-45,
ISSN 0960-2593,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0960-2593(94)90003-5.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0960259394900035)

Robert Libby, Joan Luft,
Determinants of judgment performance in accounting settings: Ability, knowledge, motivation, and environment,
Accounting, Organizations and Society,
Volume 18, Issue 5,
1993,
Pages 425-450,
ISSN 0361-3682,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0361-3682(93)90040-D.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/036136829390040D)
Abstract: The goal of this paper is to trace the development of our conceptions of the roles of ability, knowledge, motivation, and environment as determinants of decision performance in accounting settings, and provide a synthesis of the basic constructs, conceptual relations, and methodological guidelines that can be inferred from this diverse literature. We first outline the key characteristics of accounting settings and research principles appropriate for examining the characteristics. The primary emphasis is on identifying interactions between determinants of performance, specifying underlying cognitive processes, and abstraction based on theory and task analysis. We then demonstrate how selected studies which follow these basic principles have greatly enhanced our understanding of accounting-related decisions. Finally, suggestions for future research are presented.

Ingrid M. Olson, Marshall D. Abrams,
Computer access control policy choices,
Computers & Security,
Volume 9, Issue 8,
1990,
Pages 699-714,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4048(90)90113-8.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0167404890901138)
Abstract: This paper provides a guide—a road map—for refining a high-level information dissemination/control policy into an implementable access control policy. This process involves determining the appropriate set of policy-oriented limitations and can take place at many levels, from a top-level corporate decision to a hardware implementation choice. The paper discusses many of the choices that need to be made in the process and some of the implications of making each decision. A discussion of the Generalized Framework for Access Control (GFAC), an ongoing research effort, presents a framework and new perspective for describing access controls. Discretionary Access Control and Mandatory Access Control are described within the GFAC framework, and two examples are given showing how changing some of the policy choices can represent a different policy which may meet a different set of access control requirements.
Keywords: Access control policy; Authority; Generalized Framework for Access Control; Hierarchy of control

Ross Anderson, Frank Stajano, Jong-Hyeon Lee,
Security policies,
Editor(s): Marvin V. Zelkowitz,
Advances in Computers,
Elsevier,
Volume 55,
2002,
Pages 185-235,
ISSN 0065-2458,
ISBN 9780120121557,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0065-2458(01)80030-9.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0065245801800309)
Abstract: A security policy is a high-level specification of the security properties that a given system should possess. It is a means for designers, domain experts and implementers to communicate with each other, and a blueprint that drives a project from design through implementation and validation. We offer a survey of the most significant security policy models in the literature, showing how “security” may mean very different things in different contexts, and we review some of the mechanisms typically used to implement a given security policy.

S.K. Asare, A. Wright,
Hypothesis revision strategies in conducting analytical procedures,
Accounting, Organizations and Society,
Volume 22, Issue 8,
1997,
Pages 737-755,
ISSN 0361-3682,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0361-3682(97)00022-6.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0361368297000226)
Abstract: A number of accounting tasks require an evaluation of competing hypotheses. For instance, a management accountant considers alternative reasons for a significant standard cost variance while an auditor must determine whether an unexpected fluctuation in a client's account balance was caused by an error, irregularity or a change in economic conditions. In spite of the prevalence of hypothesis evaluation in practice, little is known about the process. In this paper we provide evidence on two issues that could compromise effective and efficient hypothesis evaluation: (1) the revision of beliefs over competing hypotheses given diagnostic evidence; and (2) whether an eliminated hypothesis is subsequently resuscitated (i.e. reconsidered as plausible). To address these issues, 55 auditors were provided audit test results and were asked to evaluate five potential hypotheses that may have caused a material fluctuation in the gross margin ratio of a client. The findings indicate that, when presented with diagnostic evidence about a target hypothesis, auditors were prone to adjusting the likelihood of the target hypothesis but not revising the likelihoods of the competing hypotheses. This non-Bayesian revision strategy, which we label the “one-hypothesis syndrome”, appears to represent a trade-off reflecting competing forces of cognitive strain, efficiency and accountability. While our preliminary results indicate high performance (in identifying the actual cause), additional research in less controlled settings is needed to fully evaluate the effect of this trade-off on efficiency and effectiveness. Finally, contrary to anecdotal evidence from an SEC release, auditors were reluctant to eliminate hypotheses and those who did, did not regard their eliminations as permanent.

Elisa Bertino,
Data security,
Data & Knowledge Engineering,
Volume 25, Issues 1–2,
1998,
Pages 199-216,
ISSN 0169-023X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0169-023X(97)00049-9.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169023X97000499)
Abstract: Maintaining data quality is an important requirement in any organization. It requires measures for access control, semantic integrity, fault tolerance and recovery. Access control regulates the access to the system by users to ensure that all accesses are authorized according to some specified policy. In this paper, we survey the state of the art in access control for database systems, discuss the main research issues, and outline possible directions for future research.
Keywords: Access control; World Wide Web; Data warehousing

 Jong Uk Choi,
A constructive synthesis approach to a knowledge-based internal control evaluation system design,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 7, Issue 2,
1994,
Pages 357-372,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0957-4174(94)90049-3.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0957417494900493)
Abstract: In knowledge engineering interviews with experienced auditors, it was observed that the auditor's review processes in evaluating the client's internal control system can be characterized by the following: using selective attention, forward chaining with a hypothesis-test as a back-up, and multiple knowledge sources. Based on these observations and cognitive science theories, a computational model, called the red-flagging model, was developed and implemented in a microcomputer environment. In the red-flagging model, a problem solver pays attention to relevant information and users a blackboard architecture for allowing multiple knowledge sources to communicate with each other. The computerized internal control evaluation review system, ICE1, built on the red-flagging model, processes more than 400 checklist question items and incrementally constructs review conclusions from relevant information. In a performance test against 29 real audit cases (correspond to 232 cases in previous research), the review system showed more than 80% compatibility with experienced auditor's conclusions.

Bill Murray,
Security and access control,
Computer Fraud & Security Bulletin,
Volume 1992, Issue 12,
1992,
Pages 10-15,
ISSN 0142-0496,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0142-0496(09)90145-X.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S014204960990145X)

Gail-Joon Ahn, Seung-Phil Hong, Michael E Shin,
Reconstructing a formal security model,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 44, Issue 11,
2002,
Pages 649-657,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0950-5849(02)00092-7.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584902000927)
Abstract: Role-based access control (RBAC) is a flexible approach to access control, which has generated great interest in the security community. The principal motivation behind RBAC is to simplify the complexity of administrative tasks. Several formal models of RBAC have been introduced. However, there are a few works specifying RBAC in a way which system developers or software engineers can easily understand and adopt to develop role-based systems. And there still exists a demand to have a practical representation of well-known access control models for system developers who work on secure system development. In this paper we represent a well-known RBAC model with software engineering tools such as Unified Modeling Language (UML) and Object Constraints Language (OCL) to reduce a gap between security models and system developments. The UML is a general-purpose visual modeling language in which we can specify, visualize, and document the components of a software system. And OCL is part of the UML and has been used for object-oriented analysis and design as a de facto constraints specification language in software engineering arena. Our representation is based on a standard model for RBAC proposed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology. We specify this RBAC model with UML including three views: static view, functional view, and dynamic view. We also describe how OCL can specify RBAC constraints that is one of important aspects to constrain what components in RBAC are allowed to do. In addition, we briefly discuss future directions of this work.
Keywords: Access control; Role-based; Formal model; UML

Jing-Jang Hwang, Kou-Chen Wu, Duen-Ren Liu,
Access control with role attribute certificates,
Computer Standards & Interfaces,
Volume 22, Issue 1,
2000,
Pages 43-53,
ISSN 0920-5489,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0920-5489(99)00029-X.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S092054899900029X)
Abstract: The goal of access control is to counter the threat of unauthorized operations involving computer or communication systems. Role-based access control (RBAC) is a new paradigm for access control, different from the traditional schemes such as the capability scheme or the access control list scheme. To realize the RBAC scheme, we define role attribute certificates following a generic specification in X.509. Our certificate is a vehicle for carrying role-assignment information about a certificate subject. The certificate is certified, issued, and revoked by a central administrator, called the Role Attribute Certification Authority (RACA); as a result, the access control information conveyed in the certificate is centrally managed. The certificate is sent to application sites where the information is required for access control decisions; consequently, a scheme using this special type of attribute certificate gains the advantage of reducing communication. The drawback with this approach is that role attribute certificates must be accompanied by a public-key certificate, whose functioning depends on the existence of a public-key infrastructure (PKI).
Keywords: Public-key certificate; Attribute certificate; X.509 standard recommendation; Role-based access control

R. Anderson, J.-H. Lee,
Jikzi — a new framework for security policy, trusted publishing and electronic commerce,
Computer Communications,
Volume 23, Issue 17,
2000,
Pages 1621-1626,
ISSN 0140-3664,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-3664(00)00248-6.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140366400002486)
Abstract: In this paper, we will describe a thread of research, which we have followed off and on at Cambridge for about three years. Our topic is the security of electronic documents, in the broad sense: how can we be sure of the authenticity of things that are published electronically? This started off as a relatively small project, which we thought would take only a few weeks. The goal was to help our medical informatics department publish information such as drug formularies and treatment protocols on the hospital LAN or PC diskettes, in an appropriately dependable way. It rapidly became clear that the problem was much larger and more complex; a general solution would not only cope with ‘content’ — text, audio, video, software, whatever — but also with objects such as public key certificates. If done properly, it would give us a systematic way to deal with security policy on the web. Our goal now is to let people build integrated publishing and e-commerce services using simple, uniform and appropriate mechanisms. Our proposed solution is a single transparent markup language that allows us to support multiple security policies, plus supporting material ranging from a test implementation to an authentication logic.
Keywords: Electronic publishing; Security policy; Electronic commerce

Michael J. Cerullo, Virginia Cerullo,
EDP risk analysis,
Computer Audit Update,
Volume 1994, Supplement 2,
1994,
Pages 9-30,
ISSN 0960-2593,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0960-2593(94)90002-7.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0960259394900027)

Bonita K Peterson, Thomas H Gibson,
Student health services: a case of employee fraud,
Journal of Accounting Education,
Volume 21, Issue 1,
2003,
Pages 61-73,
ISSN 0748-5751,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0748-5751(02)00016-7.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0748575102000167)
Abstract: The indicators of employee fraud often are not recognized by auditors or their clients until after financial losses have been incurred. Employee fraud costs society hundreds of billions of dollars every year [The Association of Certified Fraud Examiners. (2002). Report to the nation on occupational fraud and abuse. Austin: ACFE], and as such, it is increasingly important for auditors and accountants to have fraud prevention and detection skills. This nonfictional case of employee fraud in a university setting is designed to expose students to several different fraud issues. Topics covered in this case include: an explanation of why people commit fraud; the profile of the typical fraud perpetrator; recognizing red flags that may indicate the presence of fraud; the importance of a strong system of internal controls in preventing and detecting fraud; and audit procedures that may help to detect a skimming scheme. This case is appropriate for use in a first auditing course or a fraud examination course.
Keywords: Fraud; Asset misappropriation; Skimming scheme; Embezzlement; Red flags

Leon Strous,
Security evaluation criteria,
Computers & Security,
Volume 13, Issue 5,
1994,
Pages 379-384,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4048(94)90030-2.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0167404894900302)
Abstract: This article is a position paper on security evaluation criteria. The paper is prepared by Jaap den Engelsman, Martin de Graaf, Paul Overbeek, Hans Schoone en Leon Strous, members of working group SB.W06 Security Evaluation Criteria of the Special Interest Group on Information Security (SIGIS) of the Dutch Computer Society (NGI). During the process of preparing this paper the authors were supported by the other members of this working group.

Ronald Paans, Hans de Lange,
Auditing the SNA/SNI environment,
Computers & Security,
Volume 10, Issue 3,
1991,
Pages 251-261,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4048(91)90041-B.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/016740489190041B)
Abstract: Auditing complex System Network Architecture (SNA) networks is a scarcely explored area, confronting the reviewers with a number of distinct, though related questions such as: what are the measures for security and internal control integrated in the networks, what are their strengths and weaknesses, how can one verify their effectiveness and how are the measures impacted by interconnecting networks? From an EDP-auditors' point of view, this paper discusses SNA and interconnected SNA networks, associates the internal control and security measures to hardware and software components, and provides recommendations for auditing the SNA/SNI environment in its entirety.
Keywords: Network security; Network access control; Privacy; EDP-auditing; Technical EDP-auditor; Encryption; SNA

Jefferson T. Davis, Anne P. Massey, Ronald E.R. Lovell,
Supporting a complex audit judgment task: An expert network approach,
European Journal of Operational Research,
Volume 103, Issue 2,
1997,
Pages 350-372,
ISSN 0377-2217,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0377-2217(97)00125-2.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0377221797001252)
Abstract: An auditor considers a tremendous amount of data when assessing the risk that the internal control (IC) structure of an entity will fail to prevent or detect significant misstatements in financial statements. The myriad of relationships between IC variables that must be identified, selected, and analyzed often makes assessing control risk a difficult task. While some general procedures and guidelines are provided, audit standards dictate no specifically set procedures and rules for making a preliminary control risk assessment (CRA). Rather, the procedures and rules are left mostly to auditor judgment. This paper considers the appropriateness of applying artificial intelligence (AI) techniques to support this audit judgment task. It details the construction of a prototype expert network; an integration of an expert system (ES) and a neural network (NN). The rules contained in the ES model basic CRA heuristics, thus allowing for efficient use of well-known control variable relationships. The NN provides a way to recognize patterns in the large number of control variable inter-relationships that even experienced auditors cannot express as a logical set of specific rules. The NN was trained using actual case decisions of practicing auditors.
Keywords: Expert network; Neural network; Expert system; Control risk assessment; Auditing

Edward C Cheng,
An object-oriented organizational model to support dynamic role-based access control in electronic commerce,
Decision Support Systems,
Volume 29, Issue 4,
2000,
Pages 357-369,
ISSN 0167-9236,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0167-9236(00)00083-X.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016792360000083X)
Abstract: Role-based access control (RBAC) provides flexibility to security management over the traditional approach of using user and group identifiers. In RBAC, access privileges are given to roles rather than to individual users. Users acquire the corresponding permissions when playing different roles. Roles can be defined simply as a label, but such an approach lacks the support to allow users to automatically change roles under different contexts; using static method also adds administrative overheads in role assignment. In electronic commerce (E-Commerce) and other cooperative computing environments, access to shared resources has to be controlled in the context of the entire business process; it is therefore necessary to model dynamic roles as a function of resource attributes and contextual information. In this paper, an object-oriented organizational model, Organization Modeling and Management (OMM), is presented as an underlying model to support dynamic role definition and role resolution in E-Commerce solution. The paper describes the OMM reference model and shows how it can be applied flexibly to capture the different classes of resources within a corporation, and to maintain the complex and dynamic roles and relationships between the resource objects. Administrative tools use the role model in OMM to define security policies for role definition and role assignment. At runtime, the E-Commerce application and the underlying resource manager queries the OMM system to resolve roles in order to authorize any access attempts. Contrary to traditional approaches, OMM separates the organization model from the applications; thus, it allows independent and flexible role modeling to support realistically the dynamic authorization requirements in a rapidly changing business world.
Keywords: Electronic commerce; Role-based access control; Organization modeling; Role resolution; Business process management; Workflow

Michalis Glykas, George Valiris,
Management science semantics for object-oriented business modelling in BPR,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 40, Issue 8,
1998,
Pages 417-433,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0950-5849(98)00051-2.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584998000512)
Abstract: BPR methodologies should justify their capability for understanding an organization's strategy, business structure and processes. For this reason techniques that provide understanding of the current and future desired positions of the organization and the discrepancy between them as well as consistent business modelling techniques are required. One of the main drawbacks of existing business modelling methodologies is the lack of theoretical underpining associated with the concepts used in business modelling. This paper presents a BPR methodology called agent relationship morphism analysis (ARMA) that goes beyond the limitations of the existing BPR methodologies taking a holistic view of the organization. In ARMA the modelling of the business environment is achieved with the use of three perspectives: the structural, behavioural and process. A technique called agent relationship modelling (ARM) has been developed for modelling the structural perspective. The more dynamic organizational concepts are described in the behavioural and process perspectives. These perspectives are modelled in a technique called agent/object lifecycles (ALCs/OLCs).
Keywords: BPR methodology; Business modelling tools; Development model

Nico den Boer,
A risk control strategy for corporate computer operations,
Computer Audit Update,
Volume 1995, Supplement 4,
1995,
Pages 18-30,
ISSN 0960-2593,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0960-2593(00)80068-3.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0960259300800683)

Georges J. Pangalos,
Secure medical databases: design and operation,
International Journal of Bio-Medical Computing,
Volume 43, Issues 1–2,
1996,
Pages 53-60,
ISSN 0020-7101,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0020-7101(96)01227-5.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020710196012275)
Abstract: Medical database security plays an important role in the overall security of medical information systems. The development of appropriate secure database design and operation methodologies is an important problem in the area and a necessary prerequisite for the successful development of such systems. The general framework for medical database security and a number of parameters of the secure medical database design and operation problem are presented and discussed. A secure medical database development methodology is also presented which could help overcome some of the problems currently encountered.

Dieter Fink,
Auditors' evaluation of computer security: Agreement or disagreement?,
Computer Audit Update,
Volume 1994, Supplement 2,
1994,
Pages 1-8,
ISSN 0960-2593,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0960-2593(94)90001-9.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0960259394900019)

Günther Pernul,
Database Security,
Editor(s): Marshall C. Yovits,
Advances in Computers,
Elsevier,
Volume 38,
1994,
Pages 1-72,
ISSN 0065-2458,
ISBN 9780120121380,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0065-2458(08)60175-8.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0065245808601758)
Abstract: Publisher Summary
This chapter discusses the relational data model, presents the basic terminology used in computer security, and describes the most successful methods of penetrating a database. It reviews, evaluates, and compares the most prominent examples of database security models and techniques. It presents an investigation of secure database management systems (DBMS). A secure DBMS means a special-purpose system that supports a level-based security policy and is designed and implemented with the main focus on the enforcement of high security requirements. The chapter discusses on one of the major problems of level-based security-related database research. It addresses the problem of classifying the data stored in a database so that the security classifications reflect the security requirements of the application domain proper. A semantic data/security model is proposed to arrive at a conceptualization and clear understanding of the security semantics of the database application. Database security is subject to many national and international standardization efforts. These efforts are aimed at developing metrics for evaluating the degree of trust that can be placed in the computer products used in the processing of sensitive information. The chapter discusses these proposals. It points out research challenges in database security and forecasts the direction of the field over the next few years.

Michael T. Davis, Terry D. Lee,
Rapid protein identification using a microscale electrospray LC/MS system on an ion trap mass spectrometer,
Journal of the American Society for Mass Spectrometry,
Volume 9, Issue 3,
1998,
Pages 194-201,
ISSN 1044-0305,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1044-0305(97)00282-1.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1044030597002821)
Abstract: A methodology has been developed for the rapid identification of gel separated proteins. Following in gel protein digestion with trypsin, the resulting peptide mixture is analyzed by on-line liquid chromatography, electrospray mass spectrometry (LC/MS). The mass spectral data containing either accurate mass values or sequence specific fragment ion information is then matched to a database of known protein sequences. Key features of the LC/MS system are the use of a novel integrated, microscale LC column-electrospray interface and variable flow solvent delivery to optimize the efficiency of sample loading and gradient elution. With these enhancements, only 10 min is required to analyze each sample. The method is routine for sample amounts ranging from 50 to 500 fmol. The analysis parameters for the ion trap mass spectrometer have to be carefully adjusted in order to keep pace with the rapidly eluting LC peaks. Although designed for rapid LC separations, the integrated column-electrospray interface is also able to provide extended analyses of selected components using a technique known as “peak parking.”

Roderick K. Parkin,
The importance of IT security,
Computer Fraud & Security,
Volume 1998, Issue 3,
1998,
Pages 12-15,
ISSN 1361-3723,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-3723(97)86603-1.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361372397866031)
Abstract: Security and the ‘will to survive’ are basic instincts which are evident in all aspects of life. Businesses in general, exhibit and practice these instincts with varying degrees of success.

Simon N. Foley,
Building Chinese walls in standard unixTM,
Computers & Security,
Volume 16, Issue 6,
1997,
Pages 551-563,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0167-4048(97)00010-2.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404897000102)
Abstract: The set-user-id facility in Unix can be used to form the basis for the implementation of a wide variety of different security policies in Unix. We show how the Chinese Wall security policy can be implemented using this facility. The approach is not appropriate for security critical applications: it serves to illustrate that it can be done in a rather simple way, and may be useful for less critical applications. Our technique also provides an approach to implementing dynamic segregation of duties in Unix.
Keywords: security policy model; Chinese wall; Unix protection; access control; Clark-Wilson integrity model

John Rushby,
Critical system properties: survey and taxonomy,
Reliability Engineering & System Safety,
Volume 43, Issue 2,
1994,
Pages 189-219,
ISSN 0951-8320,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0951-8320(94)90065-5.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0951832094900655)
Abstract: Computer systems are increasingly employed in circumstances where their failure (or even their correct operation, if they are built to flawed requirements) can have serious consequences. There is a surprising diversity of opinion concerning the properties that such ‘critical systems’ should possess, and the best methods to develop them. The dependability approach grew out of the tradition of ultra-reliable and fault-tolerant systems, while the safety approach grew out of the tradition of hazard analysis and system safety engineering. Yet another tradition is found in the security community, and there are further specialized approaches in the tradition of real-time systems. In this article are examined the critical properties considered in each approach, and the techniques that have been developed to specify them and to ensure their satisfaction. Since systems are now being constructed that must satisfy several of these critical system properties simultaneously, there is particular interest in the extent to which techniques from one tradition support or conflict with those of another, and in whether certain critical system properties are fundamentally compatible or incompatible with each other. As a step toward improved understanding of these issues, it is suggested that a taxonomy, based on Perrow's analysis (Perrow, C. Normal Accidents: Living with High Risk Technologies. Basic Books, New York, 1984), that considers the complexity of component interactions and tightness of coupling as primary factors, is used.

Charles Cresson Wood,
Principles of secure information systems design,
Computers & Security,
Volume 9, Issue 1,
1990,
Pages 13-24,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4048(90)90150-R.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/016740489090150R)
Abstract: For the most part, computer systems designers and analysts are acutely aware of and genuinely concerned about information systems security. Unfortunately, they do not manifest their concern by incorporating specific control measures into the systems they create, enhance, and maintain. The reason for this is that they lack a set of principles of secure information systems design, that may be used when selecting or devising control measures. Such principles can constitute a foundation of thinking about information security, assist in the proper categorization of controls by type, and facilitate prudent selection of appropriate controls from amongst these categories. Responding to the need, this article provides an overview of security principles for information systems design.

Marshall D. Abrams, Edward G. Amoroso, Leonard J. LaPadula, Teresa F. Lunt, James G. Williams,
Report of an integrity research study group,
Computers & Security,
Volume 12, Issue 7,
1993,
Pages 679-689,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4048(93)90085-J.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/016740489390085J)
Abstract: This paper describes issues and results obtained in the context of an integrity research study group. A specification and modeling taxonomy is shown to provide a framework for the group's integrity discussions and investigations. In particular, the Clark–Wilson model and its relation to external integrity requirements comprised the primary focus of our work. The details of the specification and modeling taxonomy are explained, and several issues and recommendations are proposed including the notion of a primary CDI as an extension to the Clark–Wilson model. The implications of these issues and recommendations are examined in the context of database systems. Several concluding remarks and suggestions for future work are also presented.
Keywords: Computer information integrity; Clark-Wilson model; Security and protection; Models and principles; Access controls; Security modeling; Computer security policies

Jeff Tian,
Reliability Measurement, Analysis, and Improvement for Large Software Systems,
Editor(s): Marvin V. Zelkowitz,
Advances in Computers,
Elsevier,
Volume 46,
1998,
Pages 159-235,
ISSN 0065-2458,
ISBN 9780120121465,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0065-2458(08)60205-3.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0065245808602053)
Abstract: Abstracts
This chapter surveys recent developments in software reliability engineering, and presents results in measuring test activities, analyzing product reliability, and identifying high risk areas for focused reliability improvement for large software systems. Environmental constraints and existing analysis techniques are carefully examined to select appropriate analysis techniques, models, implementation strategies, and support tools suitable for large software systems. The analysis and modeling activities include measure definition, data gathering, graphical test activity and defect tracking, overall quality assessment using software reliability growth models, and identification of problematic areas and risk management using tree-based reliability models. Various existing software tools have been adapted and integrated to support these analysis and modeling activities. This approach has been used in the testing phase of several large software products developed in the IBM Software Solutions Toronto Laboratory and was demon- strated to be effective and efficient. Various practical problems and solutions in implementing this strategy are also discussed.

Lindsay C.J. Mercer,
Tailor-made auditing of information systems for the detection of fraud,
Computers & Security,
Volume 9, Issue 1,
1990,
Pages 59-66,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4048(90)90158-P.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/016740489090158P)
Abstract: The extent and incidence of computer-related fraud and the risk it poses to all organizations using computers is now widely documented and reported. Auditors are, however, generally better at naming the disease and at observing in fine detail its symptoms than at finding and applying curative and preventive measures. This paper addresses how, as part of an integrated policy, relatively straightforward and established audit techniques can be used in audits tailor made for detecting fraud in information systems.
Keywords: EDP-audit; Computer fraud; Preventive control; Fraud detection

Theodore T Herbert,
Multinational Strategic Planning: MatchingCentralExpectations to Local Realities,
Long Range Planning,
Volume 32, Issue 1,
1999,
Pages 81-87,
ISSN 0024-6301,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0024-6301(98)00128-9.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0024630198001289)
Abstract: Strategic planning is a process intended to provide enhanced performance throughasystematic analytic process. The multinational corporation provides a special opportunityforstrategic planning, due to multiple dispersed sites and lack of close supervisory controlfromheadquarters. Rarely considered is the intervening variable of cultural divergencebetweensubsidiary and headquarters, with the potential to violate the culturally-based assumptionsthatunderlie the strategic planning process. This paper identifies the underlying assumptionsofstrategic planning and highlights the manner in which they may be inconsistent withnationalcultural values, resulting in invalid results and comparability of strategic planning efforts.A casehistory provides examples of these difficulties.© 1999 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rightsreserved

Donn B. Parker,
Restating the foundation of information security,
Computer Audit Update,
Volume 1991, Issue 10,
1991,
Pages 2-15,
ISSN 0960-2593,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0960-2593(91)90013-Y.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/096025939190013Y)

Lloyd D. Doney,
The growing threat of computer crime in small businesses,
Business Horizons,
Volume 41, Issue 3,
1998,
Pages 81-86,
ISSN 0007-6813,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0007-6813(98)90011-8.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0007681398900118)

F.T. Dezoort,
An analysis of experience effects on audit committee members' oversight judgments,
Accounting, Organizations and Society,
Volume 23, Issue 1,
1998,
Pages 1-21,
ISSN 0361-3682,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0361-3682(97)00029-9.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0361368297000299)
Abstract: This paper examines whether experience affects audit committee members' oversight judgments. A sample of 87 audit committee members completed an internal control oversight task to evaluate whether experience facilitated comparability with a criterion group of external auditors. The results indicate that both general domain and task specific experience made a significant difference in audit committee members' internal control assessments. Of primary importance, members with experience made internal control judgments more like auditors than did members without experience. Ancillary results reveal that experienced members made more consistent judgments, had higher self-insight, higher consensus, and higher technical content levels for additional items offered than did the members without experience. These findings provide some initial empirical support for suggestions that prior work experience can make a difference in audit committee member oversight and highlight the need for additional research across the diverse range of audit committee tasks.

L.A. Tabarovsky, M.B. Rabinovich,
Real time 2D inversion of induction logging data,
Journal of Applied Geophysics,
Volume 38, Issue 4,
1998,
Pages 251-275,
ISSN 0926-9851,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0926-9851(97)00034-7.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0926985197000347)
Abstract: Real time 2D inversion for an induction logging instrument may be achieved using a fast forward modeling and special inversion strategy. The fast forward modeling employs a low-frequency approximation of an induction response known as Doll's geometric factor. Modeling geometric factors is much faster than modeling the electromagnetic field in the frequency domain. To transform real data into the Doll's limit, multi-frequency skin-effect correction is applied. The correction technique involves an asymptotic theory of the integral equation for a 2D boundary value problem. The inversion is based on separating the parameter space into subspaces of lower dimension. Initially, adaptive overlapping windows split logging data into manageable portions. Each window consists of three subwindows: the predictor, corrector and upgrader. Further separation of parameters is introduced by Doll's approximation: the low-frequency response is linear with respect to formation conductivity. This allows us to split inversion for conductivity and geometric parameters. The next level of splitting inversion is achieved by independently determining parameters of the near borehole zone and remote formation areas. This is done by utilizing different subsets of sensors. The inversion does not require initial guess: layers are introduced dynamically, if necessary. The resolution is improved in sequential iterations by adding finer details to the previously obtained models. The final selection of parameters satisfies a variety of a priori constraints formulated as target resistivity distributions. The technique for imposing constraints is based on the analysis of data mapping into the model space. Interpretation of synthetic and real data confirms the viability of the method.
Keywords: 2D inversion; induction logging; real time processing

C.I. Dalton, J.F. Griffin,
Applying military grade security to the Internet,
Computer Networks and ISDN Systems,
Volume 29, Issue 15,
1997,
Pages 1799-1808,
ISSN 0169-7552,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0169-7552(97)00100-1.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169755297001001)
Abstract: The explosive growth witnessed in the Internet over the last few years has encouraged companies to connect to it and to offer services to their customers over it. Concerns about security are holding them back from all but the most restrictive connectivity. This paper explores the use of a military development, the Compartmented Mode Workstation in a commercial setting, as a platform that is secure enough to implement services that are accessed over the Internet. Two applications have been investigated in detail, a firewalled Domain Name System and a World Wide Web service with enhanced authentication. Finally, there is discussion of how other Internet-based services might benefit from the application of CMW technology.
Keywords: Internet application gateway; Multi-level security; Firewalls; Domain name system; Compartmented mode workstation

 Siew Kien Sia,  Boon Siong Neo,
The impacts of business process re-engineering on organizational controls,
International Journal of Project Management,
Volume 14, Issue 6,
1996,
Pages 341-348,
ISSN 0263-7863,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0263-7863(96)00015-4.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0263786396000154)
Abstract: While much publicity and enthusiasm surrounds business process re-engineering (BPR), little attention has been paid to the consequential management issues, e.g. compression of responsibilities, empowerment of workers, reduction of checks and controls, and reliance on external partnerships. The important question is whether traditional management control functions have been eliminated, compromised, or rendered irrelevant amidst such dynamic organizational changes, and if so, how does the management control function in a re-engineered organization evolve? This paper seeks to explore the research question by tabulating the experiences of 28 published BPR implementation cases. The findings seem to suggest a shift in the control portfolio towards higher reliance on automated control, deferred review, self-management, and market mechanism. Managers thus face the challenges of adjusting other organizational elements to facilitate the proper operations of such controls. Effective project management must appreciate the emerging management control structure since it is often the vehicle through which BPR is implemented. Inadequate attention to these issues can result in re-engineered systems that fail to consider critical risks or are prematurely self-defeating as they run contrary to the underlying control philosophy.
Keywords: Organizational controls; business process re-engineering; taste interpendence; self-mamgement

Dan N. Stone,
Accountant's tales,
Accounting, Organizations and Society,
Volume 26, Issues 4–5,
2001,
Pages 461-470,
ISSN 0361-3682,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0361-3682(00)00016-7.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0361368200000167)
Abstract: This essay explores the genre of didactic accounting fiction, and, the contributions to accounting scholarship of a recent novel (Collett, I.W., & Forgione, D. (1998). Costly reflections in a midas mirror. Sun Lakes: Thomas Horton & Daughters), and novella (Loebbecke, J.K. (1998a). The auditor: An instructional novella. Upper Saddle River: Prentice Hall).

T.P. de Vries,
The implementation of TSS,
Computers & Security,
Volume 11, Issue 4,
1992,
Pages 315-325,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4048(92)90171-M.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/016740489290171M)
Abstract: The IBM Transaction Security System (TSS, product family 475 x) is an integrated hardware and software implementation of common cryptographic functions. Together with the software support package SECIWS, TSS is designed to improve security at PC workstations, communication channels between workstations and between workstations and host processors. In September 1990, IBM announced a security extension of its System Application Architecture (SAA). One part of this extension is the Common Cryptographic Architecture (CCA). CCA has the objective of standardizing prime cryptographic functions such as: confidentiality, integrity, authenticity, person verification and related key management. All new IBM cryptographic products will support CCA or do so already. This article describes the objectives and implementation of the IBM Transaction Security System with regard to ensuring the security of a stand-alone workstation. The capacity of TSS to safeguard LAN communication as well as between a host and a workstation are beyond the scope of this publication.
Keywords: Network security; Workstation security; TSS

Susan Chapin, Don Faatz, Sushil Jajodia, Amgad Fayad,
Consistent policy enforcement in distributed systems using mobile policies,
Data & Knowledge Engineering,
Volume 43, Issue 3,
2002,
Pages 261-280,
ISSN 0169-023X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0169-023X(02)00128-3.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169023X02001283)
Abstract: This paper briefly traces the evolution of information system architectures from mainframe-connected terminals to distributed multi-tier architectures. It presents the challenges facing developers of multi-tier information systems in providing effective consistent data policy enforcement, such as access control in these architectures. Finally, it introduces “Mobile Policy” (MoP) as a potential solution and presents a framework for using mobile policy in the business logic tier of multi-tier information systems.
Keywords: Security; Access control; Mobile policy; n-Tier architecture

D.A. Gibson,
On-property hotel financial controllers: a discourse analysis approach to characterizing behavioural roles,
International Journal of Hospitality Management,
Volume 21, Issue 1,
2002,
Pages 5-23,
ISSN 0278-4319,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0278-4319(01)00018-4.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0278431901000184)
Abstract: This empirical study set out to characterize the role behaviour of Hong Kong international 4 star on-property hotel controllers in their interaction with line management. The approach adopted in this research involved separate ‘in depth’ interviews with four on-property hotel controllers, with each controller subsequently participating in the content analysis of the transcribed interviews. The conclusion from this study is that the predominant behavioural role of these on-property hotel controllers is neither that of a ‘bean counter’ nor a ‘valued business partner’ as has been suggested in the literature, but rather that of ‘company cop’. Sometimes as ‘police officer’, sometimes as ‘consultant’ and sometimes by the back door, as a ‘spy/watchdog’, these on-property hotel controllers exercise their mandate to ensure compliance with the company ‘laws’. These characterizations, with the exception of that of ‘spy/watchdog’, seem to be compatible with characterizations reported by on-property controllers in businesses in comparable operating circumstances to that of the hotel and conclusions from previous focussed studies on on-property hotel controllers.
Keywords: Hotels: Financial controller; Qualitative research; Discourse analysis; Behavioural roles

Pauline Ratnasingham,
EDI security — re-evaluation of controls and its implications on the organizations,
Computers & Security,
Volume 16, Issue 8,
1997,
Pages 650-656,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0167-4048(97)87578-5.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404897875785)
Abstract: Electronic Commerce presents many opportunities for public and private sectors to capitalize on technologies such as Electronic Data Interchange (EDI). A significant barrier to the organizational adoption and diffusion of EDI, however, is the lack of knowledge in the need for adequate security and control. This paper validates and extends the results of a previous survey and reports the findings of seven case studies using EDI systems. The importance in implementing controls and the lessons learnt from it will be discussed.

Ehud Gudes, Aharon Tubman,
AutoWF––A secure Web workflow system using autonomous objects,
Data & Knowledge Engineering,
Volume 43, Issue 1,
2002,
Pages 1-27,
ISSN 0169-023X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0169-023X(02)00058-7.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169023X02000587)
Abstract: Workflow management systems (WFMS) automate business processes where information flows between individuals. WFMS have two major implications for security: First, since the description of a workflow process explicitly states when which function is to be performed by whom, security specifications may be derived from such descriptions and translated into static role-based specifications. Second, since the WFMS is to be operated on the Web using web agents, dynamic and individual security rules must be enforced. AutoWF includes both types of security policies. AutoWF is implemented on top of a powerful software foundation––autonomous objects. Both general workflow management tasks and specific functional tasks are implemented as autonomous objects distributed over the Internet. This paper surveys some of the concepts on which the system is based, it then concentrates on the design and architectural issues of the AutoWF system, and finally we present some implementation examples.
Keywords: Database security; Workflow; Cyberspace; Autonomous objects; Role-based security; Dynamic authorization

Charles Cresson Wood,
Principles of secure information systems design with groupware examples,
Computers & Security,
Volume 12, Issue 7,
1993,
Pages 663-678,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4048(93)90084-I.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/016740489390084I)
Abstract: For the most part, computer systems designers and analysts are acutely aware of and genuinely concerned about information systems security. Ironically, in many instances they do not manifest their concern by incorporating specific control measures into the systems they create, enhance, and maintain. The reason for this is that they lack a set of principles of secure information systems design, that may be used when selecting or devising control measures. Such principles can constitute a foundation for thinking about information security, assist in the proper categorization of controls by type, and facilitate prudent selection of appropriate controls from amongst these categories. Responding to the need, this article provides an overview of security principles for information systems design. These principles may also be used by those who are evaluating the security features found in commercial information system products. Specific examples from the new field known as “groupware” are also provided.

Joshua Singer,
Does the UK Government's target to recycle 25% of household waste by the year 2000 represent an economic approach to recycling? A case study of plastic,
Resources, Conservation and Recycling,
Volume 14, Issue 2,
1995,
Pages 133-155,
ISSN 0921-3449,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0921-3449(95)80005-0.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0921344995800050)
Abstract: The UK Government has set a target for the recycling of domestic waste. There are already some regulations in effect that aim to improve the condition of the market, but the market for recycled materials still remains fragmented and inefficient. When private and social costs and benefits are taken into account, the benefits of recycling in certain sectors may not stack in its favour. This paper examines how current policies place incentives on the various players in the market for recycled plastics and it queries the effectiveness of the target for recycling of domestic waste. It also discusses the roles of incineration and landfill in this context, and suggests an alternative policy initiative.
Keywords: Waste management; Recycling; Incineration; Economics; Policy; Plastic

Ravi S. Sandhu,
Role-based Access Control11Portions of this chapter have been published earlier in Sandhu et al. (1996), Sandhu (1996), Sandhu and Bhamidipati (1997), Sandhu et al. (1997) and Sandhu and Feinstein (1994).,
Editor(s): Marvin V. Zelkowitz,
Advances in Computers,
Elsevier,
Volume 46,
1998,
Pages 237-286,
ISSN 0065-2458,
ISBN 9780120121465,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0065-2458(08)60206-5.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0065245808602065)
Abstract: Abstracts
The basic concept of role-based access control (RBAC) is that permissions are associated with roles, and users are made members of appropriate roles, thereby acquiring the roles' permissions. This idea has been around since the advent of multi-user computing. Until recently, however, RBAC has received little attention from the research community. This chapter describes the motivations, results, and open issues in recent MAC research. The chapter focuses on four areas. First, RBAC is a multidimensional concept that can range from very simple at one extreme to quite complex and sophisticated at the other. This presents problems in coming up with a definitive model of RBAC. We see how this impasse is resolved by having a family of models which can accommodate all these variations. Second, we discuss how RBAC can be used to manage itself. Recent models developed for this purpose are presented. Third, the flexibility of RBAC can be demonstrated in many ways. Here we show how RBAC can be configured to enforce different variations of classical lattice-based mandatory access controls. Fourth, we describe a conceptual three-tier architecture for specification and enforcement of RBAC. The chapter concludes with a discussion of open issues in RBAC.

D. Cotroneo, N. Mazzocca, L. Romano, S. Russo,
Building a dependable system from a legacy application with CORBA,
Journal of Systems Architecture,
Volume 48, Issues 1–3,
2002,
Pages 81-98,
ISSN 1383-7621,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1383-7621(02)00093-0.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1383762102000930)
Abstract: This paper presents a dependability oriented, fault tolerance based system design, development, and deployment approach. The approach relies on an architectural framework, which allows legacy software modules to be reused as the basic building blocks of a distributed dependable application. Different levels of replication and alternative adjudication strategies are implemented behind a unified interface. These can be configured for achieving the optimal compromise between dependability and performance, according to application, deployment environment, and fault characteristics. The suggested solution can be implemented on top of any CORBA infrastructure. The architecture has been developed and tested. Experimental results are presented and discussed.
Keywords: Legacy systems; Fault tolerance; Replication; Adjudication; Multi-tier architectures; CORBA

Kin-nam Lau, Kam-hon Lee, Pong-yuen Lam, Ying Ho,
Web-site marketing: for the Travel-and-Tourism Industry,
The Cornell Hotel and Restaurant Administration Quarterly,
Volume 42, Issue 6,
2001,
Pages 55-62,
ISSN 0010-8804,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0010-8804(01)81008-9.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010880401810089)
Abstract: Marketers may learn much about their targets from examining personal web sites by means of automated web-crawling tools usually called bots.

Jane L. Reimers, Stephen A. Butler,
The effect of outcome knowledge on auditors' judgmental evaluations,
Accounting, Organizations and Society,
Volume 17, Issue 2,
1992,
Pages 185-194,
ISSN 0361-3682,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0361-3682(92)90010-P.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/036136829290010P)
Abstract: This study investigates the effect of outcome knowledge on auditors' judgments. Specifically, we varied the degree of surprise of the outcome to determine its effect on hindsight judgments in an auditing task. Results indicate that when the outcome is surprising, ex ante judgments are affected. However, when the outcome is not surprising, foresight and hindsight evaluations are not significantly different. We also tested a simple decision aid designed to reduce the hindsight effect. While the results were weak, we were able to move foresight judgments in the direction of the related hindsight judgment.

Mohammad J. Abdolmohammadi, Mohammad S. Bazaz,
Identification of tasks for expert systems development in auditing,
Expert Systems with Applications,
Volume 3, Issue 1,
1991,
Pages 99-107,
ISSN 0957-4174,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0957-4174(91)90090-2.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0957417491900902)

W.M.P. van der Aalst, A. Kumar,
A reference model for team-enabled workflow management systems,
Data & Knowledge Engineering,
Volume 38, Issue 3,
2001,
Pages 335-363,
ISSN 0169-023X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0169-023X(01)00034-9.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169023X01000349)
Abstract: Today's workflow systems assume that each work item is executed by a single worker. From the viewpoint of the system, a worker with the proper qualifications selects a work item, executes the associated work, and reports the result. There is usually no support for teams, i.e., groups of people collaborating by jointly executing work items (e.g., the program committee of a conference, the management team of a company, a working group, and the board of directors). In this paper, we propose the addition of a team concept to today's workflow management systems. Clearly, this involves a marriage of workflow and groupware technology. To shed light on the introduction of teams, we extend the traditional organizational meta model with teams and propose a team-enabled workflow reference model. For this reference model and to express constraints with respect to the distribution of work to teams, we use object constraint language (OCL).
Keywords: Workflow management systems; Team-enabled workflow reference model; Computer supported cooperative work; Groupware; Organizational models

D Cotroneo, A Mazzeo, L Romano, S Russo,
An architecture for security-oriented perfective maintenance of legacy software,
Information and Software Technology,
Volume 45, Issue 9,
2003,
Pages 619-631,
ISSN 0950-5849,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0950-5849(03)00049-1.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584903000491)
Abstract: This work presents an implementation strategy which exploits the separation of concerns and reuse in a multi-tier architecture to improve the security (availability, integrity, and confidentiality) level of an existing application. Functional properties are guaranteed via wrapping of the existing software modules. Security mechanisms are handled by the business logic of the middle-tier: availability and integrity are achieved via replication of the functional modules and the confidentiality is obtained via cryptography. The technique is presented with regard to a case study application. We believe that our experience can be used as a guideline for software practitioners to solve similar problems. We thus describe the conceptual model behind the architecture, discuss implementation issues, and present technical solutions.
Keywords: Security; Perfective maintenance; Legacy software; CORBA; Replication

Jean Hitchings,
Deficiencies of the traditional approach to information security and the requirements for a new methodology,
Computers & Security,
Volume 14, Issue 5,
1995,
Pages 377-383,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4048(95)97088-R.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/016740489597088R)
Abstract: This paper reflects on managements attitude to information security along with how it is being implemented in the UK. The statistics were obtained through empirical research collected from one hundred and thirty two organizations. It also considers the value of current related research to industry. There is obviously a need for more research to be undertaken in this area as reported computer assisted crime continues to increase. This paper proposes that a new approach to information security is needed and that this type of methodology should consider the human issue which the author believes to be the main contributing factor to breaches in information security.

Carl Pacini, Hudson Rogers, Judyth Swingen,
The OECD convention on combating bribery of foreign public officials in international business transactions: A new tool to promote transparency in financial reporting,
Advances in International Accounting,
Volume 15,
2002,
Pages 121-153,
ISSN 0897-3660,
ISBN 9780762309528,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0897-3660(02)15021-5.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0897366002150215)
Abstract: The OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions went into force in February 1999. The purposes of this paper are to: (1) define and assess the extent, costs and consequences of bribery; (2) describe the adoption and analyze the essential provisions of the OECD Convention, with a special emphasis on Article 8 which contains accounting recordkeeping and financial reporting provisions; (3) examine the role of the OECD Convention as a catalyst for passage of legislation in signatory nations; and (4) analyze the role of the OECD Convention in promoting transparency and accountability in financial reporting.

JG Walls,
A methodology for developing dependable information systems,
Omega,
Volume 20, Issue 2,
1992,
Pages 139-148,
ISSN 0305-0483,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0305-0483(92)90068-I.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/030504839290068I)
Abstract: This paper presents a mthodology for deciding what controls should be included in a computer based information system (IS). While the paper takes the perspective of the manager responsible for effective resource allocation and who is supported by the IS, the approach it provides is intended for use by the software engineer responsible for system development. The issue of IS controls is most often addressed in documents containing checklists of controls intended to be used for after-the-fact information system audits. The methodology presented here looks at the problem from the front-end of the system development process. It takes into account auditor concerns as well as the cost of including controls in an IS. The approach consists of a quantitative model which facilitates analysis of cost-benefit tradeoffs and methods which can be used to obtain information required by the model. It employs a variety of well-known techniques which have not previously been applied in this context. The major contribution of the paper is that it brings different techniques together into a coherent and feasible methodology which addresses the problem in its entirety.
Keywords: information system design; information system controls; cost-benefit analysis; dependability; information system risk

Ravi Sandhu, Sushil Jajodia,
Integrity principles and mechanisms in database management systems,
Computers & Security,
Volume 10, Issue 5,
1991,
Pages 413-427,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4048(91)90068-O.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/016740489190068O)
Abstract: Our objective in this paper is to answer the following question: what mechanisms are required in a general-purpose multiuser database management system (DBMS) to facilitate the integrity objectives of information systems? In a nutshell our conclusion is that realistic mechanisms do exist. Although existing commercial products fall far short of providing the requisite mechanisms, they can be easily extended to incorporate these mechanisms. Our principal contribution is to identify these mechanisms and to point out where gaps still remain. We have also bridged the terminology and concepts of database and security specialists in a coherent manner. In the more detailed considerations the focus of this paper is on relational DBMSs.
Keywords: Integrity; Principles; Mechanisms; Database management systems; Security

Vijay Varadharajan, Stewart Black,
Multilevel security in a distributed object-oriented system,
Computers & Security,
Volume 10, Issue 1,
1991,
Pages 51-68,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4048(91)90056-J.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/016740489190056J)
Abstract: It is often suggested that distributed computing will be the major trend in computer systems during the next decade. However, distributed systems are vulnerable to a number of security attacks. In this paper we look at the security problems of object-based distributed systems, and propose a model based on labelling for multilevel security. The purpose of this model is to preserve the information flow security in a distributed object-oriented system. We consider the basic concepts of processing objects, and also the security threats to such systems. We postulate various modelling possibilities, and produce a specific set of security properties which describe a multilevel secure object model. This particular model demonstrates how various modelling decisions are reflected in an actual model.
Keywords: Multilevel security; Information flow; Object model; Distributed systems

I.S. Herschberg, R. Paans,
Sloppy, sloppier, sloppiest,
Computers & Security,
Volume 9, Issue 3,
1990,
Pages 223-228,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4048(90)90167-R.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/016740489090167R)
Abstract: Familiarity witha system has been shown to lead to sloppiness, amounting to a deep, though unconscious breach of security. It is also pointed out that the role of the EDP-auditor is inherently ambiguous. Examples are given and remedies are indicated.
Keywords: Access control; Security; EDP-auditing

Joachim Biskup, Gerrit Bleumer,
Cryptographic protection of health information: cost and benefit,
International Journal of Bio-Medical Computing,
Volume 43, Issues 1–2,
1996,
Pages 61-67,
ISSN 0020-7101,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0020-7101(96)01228-7.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020710196012287)
Abstract: Medical, legal, and economic reasons inevitably force health care establishments to apply more and more open distributed IT systems rather than the less flexible and more expensive mainframes. Managing, for example, electronic patient records by various users at different locations by means of large scale client-server systems requires new security provisions for storing, archiving and communicating those data. Using an analogy, data processing is being changed from railroads to highways. Formerly, only one engine-driver was responsible for the security of a whole train, whereas now the car-drivers themselves are responsible each for his own car. Unless the cars are equipped with suitable security mechanisms like breaks and safety belts this change endangers individuals within and outside the cars. Cryptography provides many of the relevant security mechanisms for open distributed health care IT systems. Indeed, suitable cost effective cryptographic products are available but are rarely found in health care IT systems. The reason is more political than economic: diverging national security interests in the EU have prevented strong security in public telecommunication infrastructures arguing that, e.g. criminals would profit, too. The resulting uncertainty of investments delays the development, standardisation and installation of cryptographic solutions.

Belden Menkus,
Understanding EDI security issues,
Computers & Security,
Volume 11, Issue 6,
1992,
Pages 525-528,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4048(92)90185-T.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/016740489290185T)
Abstract: Electronic data interchange (EDI) is a major innovation in the practical use of computing. It is already being used extensively in some segments of the retailing and manufacturing sectors. EDI has demonstrated that it can improve significantly the way in which various routine business transactions are carried out. For instance, EDI arrangements are already being used to handle some forms of routine customs processes. This use of EDI is expected to grow significantly throughout the rest of this decade. Again, EDI plays a major role in the operation of so-called just-in-time parts and subassembly replenishment in a manufacturing setting.

J.L. Wilson, E. Turban, M. Zviran,
Information systems security: A managerial perspective,
International Journal of Information Management,
Volume 12, Issue 2,
1992,
Pages 105-119,
ISSN 0268-4012,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0268-4012(92)90017-K.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/026840129290017K)
Abstract: Information security has been recognized as one of the major issues of importance in the management of organizational information systems. Losses resulting from computer abuse and errors are substantial, and information systems managers continue to cite security and control as a key management issue. This paper presents the various dimensions of the problem, suggests specific steps that can be taken to improve the management of information security, and points to several research directions.

K.Hung Chan, Albert Y Lew, Marian Yew Jen Wu Tong,
Accounting and management controls in the classical Chinese novel: A Dream of the Red Mansions,
The International Journal of Accounting,
Volume 36, Issue 3,
2001,
Pages 311-327,
ISSN 0020-7063,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0020-7063(01)00105-4.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020706301001054)
Abstract: This study presents a systematic documentation of Chinese accounting and management control practices in two eminent family households of the early Qing Dynasty. There is a lack of information on management control during this period (during the 18th century) and a scarcity of empirical evidence on the control practices of family institutions in ancient China. We attempted to address these problems by analyzing the accounting and management control practices described in the popular novel A Dream of the Red Mansions. Further analyses were made to ensure that the control practices thus observed were in harmony with the social and cultural settings of the early Qing Dynasty. Pairing the control practices observed in the novel with a definite set of cultural and social values led to several empirical conclusions. Big family households of the early Qing Dynasty clearly recognized the importance of, and made distinct achievements in, accounting and management controls. They mastered the segregation of duties, the control of cash, the use of budgets for planning, the containment of costs, and the efficiency of operations. However, social and cultural factors that were prevalent during the Qing Dynasty impeded the effectiveness of such practices. The obsession with preserving harmony in society and the family system eventually led to excessive power distance and rigid rules, at the expense of flexibility and professionalism. As history is often indicative of the future, the research results should facilitate our understanding of the management of family-owned businesses in Chinese communities.
Keywords: Accounting history; Accounting and management control; A Dream of the Red Mansions; Cultural and social perspective of control

P.A. Collier, B.J. Spaul,
Addressing the need for UK information,
Computer Fraud & Security Bulletin,
Volume 1992, Issue 8,
1992,
Pages 8-12,
ISSN 0142-0496,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0142-0496(09)90102-3.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0142049609901023)

Simon Wiseman,
Control of confidentiality in databases,
Computers & Security,
Volume 9, Issue 6,
1990,
Pages 529-537,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4048(90)90131-C.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/016740489090131C)
Abstract: Providing confidentiality of the information held in a database is one of the most important aspects of database security. The problems are described and solutions are considered, with particular reference to the impact of the confidentiality controls on basic database integrity and the availability of the database.
Keywords: Database security; Polyinstantiation; Inference; Covert chanels

William List, Rob Melville,
Integrity in information systems — Executive summary,
Computers & Security,
Volume 13, Issue 4,
1994,
Pages 295-301,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4048(94)90018-3.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0167404894900183)
Abstract: This Executive Summary is based upon a longer report undertaken by IFIP Working Group 11.5. International Federation for Information Processing Working Group 11.5 addresses ‘Systems Integrity and Control’ within the overall remit of Technical Committee 11 (TC11) ‘Security and Protection in Information Processing Systems’.

G. Pernul,
Information systems security: Scope, state-of-the-art, and evaluation of techniques,
International Journal of Information Management,
Volume 15, Issue 3,
1995,
Pages 165-180,
ISSN 0268-4012,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0268-4012(95)00010-5.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0268401295000105)
Abstract: To achieve a certain degree of information systems security different techniques have been proposed and implemented. It is the aim of this paper to form a basis for their evaluation and comparison. For this purpose a general framework of security is established by defining its scope, most common threats against the security, and two kinds of different comparison and evaluation criteria. The first criteria is a set of requirements on the secrecy and confidentiality of information while the second consists of several structural requirements which we believe are essential for a successful and powerful security technique. In our evaluation we include the Discretionary Models, the Mandatory Models, the Personal Knowledge Approach, the Chinese Wall Policy and the Clark and Wilson model of security.

Lindsay C.J. Mercer,
Fraud detection via regression analysis,
Computers & Security,
Volume 9, Issue 4,
1990,
Pages 331-338,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4048(90)90103-Z.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/016740489090103Z)
Abstract: Computerized fraud detection is an effective part of an overall fraud deterrence policy. Where the relationships between data are complex and have no identifiable external factors by which they may be defined, or where fraud is endemic, the auditor may apply statistical methods to detect frauds. This paper outlines how least-squares regression analysis can be used in fraud audits. It is a practical guideline directed to those EDP-auditors who are interested in detecting frauds rather than mathematical details.
Keywords: EDP-audit; Computer fraud; Detective control; Fraud detection; Applications data; Regression analysis

R. Paans, I.S. Herschberg,
Auditing the change management process,
Computers & Security,
Volume 9, Issue 2,
1990,
Pages 161-174,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4048(90)90090-G.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/016740489090090G)
Abstract: Maintaining adequate security in a computing centre's production environment presents three distinct, though related, problems in change management: how to correct known faults, how to maintain control over innovations and how to maintain whatever security may have been achieved. One solution is the conventional change management process. However, four case studies show how easily changes may cause severe damage to a computing centre because the conventional process lacks an appropriate review and verification mechanism. As a viable proposal, it is suggested here that the change management authority should mandatorily incorporate the services of a technical EDP-auditor in order to inject the element of awareness of overall impact (controllability, internal control, security, auditability) into change management.
Keywords: Change management; Impact of change; Auditing a change; Restore procedures; Internal control; Security; EDP- auditing; Technical EDP-auditor

Frank C. Wilson,
Credentialing in medicine,
The Annals of Thoracic Surgery,
Volume 55, Issue 5,
1993,
Pages 1345-1348,
ISSN 0003-4975,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0003-4975(93)90087-X.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/000349759390087X)
Abstract: This article describes the history and process of credentialing: accreditation of programs and certification of individual practitioners. Under accreditation, general (institutional) and discipline-specific requirements, both for residencies and fellowships, are considered, along with possible outcomes and the appeals mechanism for an unfavorable review. Under certification, the relationship between individual specialty boards and the American Board of Medical Specialties is defined, followed by a consideration of the principles underlying subspecialty certification and recertification. It is concluded that enforced standards of learning are one of the pillars of accountability upon which a profession must rest; that if medicine abdicates its responsibility to impose credible standards on itself, its place will be taken by very interested, but less knowledgeable, others; and that we must, therefore, rededicate ourselves to the requirement of reasonable standards as a professional obligation and use the best means possible to meet that responsibility.

Selwyn Russell,
Paradigms for verification of authorization at source of electronic documents in an integrated environment,
Computers & Security,
Volume 12, Issue 6,
1993,
Pages 542-549,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4048(93)90049-B.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/016740489390049B)
Abstract: Verification of correct authorization of an electronic document at its source is as essential as the more familiar requirement of authentication, and of increasing importance. This verification is a relatively new explicit requirement (1990) for electronic documents. Currently any checks of authorization at source are done by human elements in the receiving enterprise. Automated technology will force changes to current message processing methods to include verification of authorization at source in order to prevent fraud by esoteric attackers. This paper explains the necessity for verification of authorization at source, proposes and compares paradigms based on audit principles used with paper documents, and examines common problems of privacy and disclosure, and overheads on both sender and receiver.

Ravi S. Sandhu, Gurpreet S. Suri,
A distributed capability-based architecture for the transform model,
Computers & Security,
Volume 12, Issue 3,
1993,
Pages 285-303,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4048(93)90118-O.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/016740489390118O)
Abstract: The Transform model is based on the concept of transformation of access rights. It unifies a number of diverse access-control mechanisms such as amplification, copy flags, separation of duties and synergistic authorization. In this paper we describe a distributed architecture for implementing Transform. Our architecture is based on capabilities with identities of subjects buried in them. This ensures unforgeability of capabilities and enables enforcement of non-discretionary controls on propagation of capabilities from one subject to another. The design provides for immediate, selective, partial and complete revocation on a temporary as well as a permanent basis. We also show that Transform has an efficient algorithm for safety analysis of the propagation of access rights (i.e., the determination of whether or not a given subject can ever acquire access to a given object).
Keywords: Distributed systems; Secure architectures; Capabilities; Safety

G.F.G. O'Shea,
Operating system integrity,
Computers & Security,
Volume 10, Issue 5,
1991,
Pages 443-465,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4048(91)90070-T.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/016740489190070T)
Abstract: Although the issue of integrity in operating systems is generally perceived to be of fundamental importance in the preservation of security in a computer system, the term is commonly used to capture a variety of different notions. This paper considers and compares different notions of integrity that have been applied in the context of operating systems, and discusses their implications for the overall design and function of operating systems. Several seminal proposals aimed at improving integrity controls are reviewed, and their relation to current developments and contemporary practices is discussed.
Keywords: Operating systems; Integrity; Security; Access control

Moshe Zviran, Chanan Glezer,
Towards generating a data integrity standard,
Data & Knowledge Engineering,
Volume 32, Issue 3,
2000,
Pages 291-313,
ISSN 0169-023X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0169-023X(99)00042-7.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169023X99000427)
Abstract: The tremendous growth in size, complexity and value of the organization’s data resources has given rise to an urgent need for a data integrity standard that will provide a consensus definition, a common measure and a set of tools for evaluating the various models and mechanisms in this domain. This paper attempts to pave the way for such a data integrity standard. It discusses various definitions of data integrity and indicates the one that best serves as a common definition. It then provides a description and assessment of two prominent data integrity models: the Biba model, and the Clark–Wilson model. Next, a framework for evaluating these models is proposed and operationalized. The final section discusses conclusions and makes some practical recommendations that derive from the comparison of the models.
Keywords: Data security; Data integrity; Protection

Roy G. Saltman,
Computerized Voting,
Editor(s): Marshall C. Yovits,
Advances in Computers,
Elsevier,
Volume 32,
1991,
Pages 255-305,
ISSN 0065-2458,
ISBN 9780120121328,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0065-2458(08)60249-1.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0065245808602491)
Abstract: Publisher Summary
Computer use in voting is part of a system involving people, established procedures, and activities as well as equipment, and it is the entire system of those four elements for which public confidence is required. This chapter discusses the diverse kinds of voting systems, documented difficulties in computerized election, and analysis and improvement of the computerized vote tallying. Voter's choices are summarized by computing equipment, and computer-processed data is used as the basis of one of the most fundamental decisions of democracy. Faultless election administration is a combination of technical, behavioral, and management issues, and it is essential that specialists from all three disciplines be involved in such investigations. Other essential topics for research and engineering would include ballot–reader accuracy and other equipment-specification issues; national voter-registration systems; new methods of voting, such as the use of telephones and online; and methods of implementing the system integrity and computer-program correctness. The latest improvements in storage size, speed of operations, minimization of physical dimensions or power use, new computer languages, techniques of software design, or new intellectual concepts, such as artificial intelligence will not, by themselves, solve the essential concern. The solution requires accuracy, integrity, and reliability in the operational use of computer technology, and the capability to prove that these conditions are present.

Seleshi Sisaye,
An organizational approach for the study of the diffusion of process innovation strategies in internal auditing and control systems,
International Journal of Applied Quality Management,
Volume 2, Issue 2,
1999,
Pages 279-293,
ISSN 1096-4738,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1096-4738(99)80095-5.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1096473899800955)
Abstract: Davenport (1993a) has pointed out that the diffusion of innovation approach as a behavioral process change has been limited to the study of how new information technology can be successfully adopted, rather than “how innovation can improve organizational performance.” This article extends Davenport's challenge to bridge this research gap by applying the diffusion of innovation approach to study accounting and control systems as an administrative process innovation approach to improve business performance. We chose to study internal auditing because it constitutes an important aspect of an administrative process innovation program that is critical for improving business performance programs.

Stephen V. Hinde,
Auditing Information Systems departments,
Computer Audit Update,
Volume 1995, Supplement 3,
1995,
Pages 1-10,
ISSN 0960-2593,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0960-2593(95)90079-9.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0960259395900799)

Fred Cohen,
Information system defences: A preliminary classification scheme,
Computers & Security,
Volume 16, Issue 2,
1997,
Pages 94-114,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0167-4048(97)88289-2.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167404897882892)
Abstract: This paper describes 140 different classes of protective methods gathered from many different sources. Where a single source for a single item is available, it is cited in the text. The most comprehensive sources used are not cited throughout the text but rather listed here (Cohen, 1995 and Neumann, 1995). Other major sources not identified by specific citation are listed here (Bellovin, 1989, 1992; Bishop, 1996; Cheswick, 1994; Cohen, 1991, 1994a; Denning, 1982; Feustal, 1973; Hoffman, 1990; Knight, 1978; Lampson, 1973; Landwehr, 1983; Linde, 1975; Neumann, 1989; Spafford, 1992).

Michael J. Cerullo, M. Virginia Cerullo,
Conducting A Financial Audit In An Automated Environment,
Computer Audit Update,
Volume 1997, Issue 9,
1997,
Pages 8-16,
ISSN 0960-2593,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0960-2593(97)81180-9.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0960259397811809)

Craig Tischler, Andrew Samuel, Kenneth Hunt,
Selecting multi-freedom multi-loop kinematic chains to suit a given task,
Mechanism and Machine Theory,
Volume 36, Issue 8,
2001,
Pages 925-938,
ISSN 0094-114X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0094-114X(01)00026-X.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0094114X0100026X)
Abstract: Developments of number synthesis and the means of enumerating kinematic chains have not lead to a significant flow of novel kinematic structures to successful mechanical designs. This paper addresses one of the difficulties, namely how to select a pertinent kinematic chain from the many that can be enumerated. To this end, a new and important concept called the variety of a kinematic chain is explained and discussed with particular attention to its relationship to the motion capabilities of mechanisms such as robot manipulators and gear trains. Many motion tasks have an inherent hierarchy of freedoms that closely relates to the variety of a kinematic chain, and hence variety can be used to select those candidate mechanisms best suited to an intended function. An epicyclic transmission is used to demonstrate this technique.

P. Kurunczi, J. Lopez, H. Shah, K. Becker,
Excimer formation in high-pressure microhollow cathode discharge plasmas in helium initiated by low-energy electron collisions11Dedicated to Professor Aleksandar Stamatovic on the occasion of his 60th birthday.,
International Journal of Mass Spectrometry,
Volume 205, Issues 1–3,
2001,
Pages 277-283,
ISSN 1387-3806,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1387-3806(00)00377-8.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1387380600003778)
Abstract: We report the observation of intense continuous vacuum ultraviolet radiation in the range 60–100 nm from microhollow cathode discharge plasmas in high-pressure He (up to 600 Torr). Two prominent emissions, a narrow, sharply peaked feature in the region of 58–65 nm and a broad emission from 65 to 95 nm are attributed to the He∗2 first- and second-excimer continuum emission, respectively. We also observed several narrow atomic emission lines in the 95–125-nm range that correspond to atomic O, N, and H emission lines. We attribute the presence of these atomic line emissions to near-resonant energy transfer processes involving the He∗2 excimers and trace concentrations of the impurities O2, N2, and H2 in the discharge feed gas. The processes leading to the atomic line emissions in the present case are similar to the near-resonant energy transfer process observed previously in high-pressure microhollow cathode discharge plasmas in Ne/H2 gas mixtures, which resulted in the emission of intense, monochromatic atomic hydrogen Lyman-α radiation (P. Kurunczi et al. J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 32 (1999) L651). He∗2 excimer formation in a microhollow cathode discharge plasma is initiated by low-energy electron collisions (excitation of the metastable He levels or ionization of the He atoms) followed by three-body collisions. The emission of He∗2 excimer radiation from a microhollow cathode discharge plasma indicates that these discharges are very efficient sources of energetic electrons, as the formation of He∗2 excimers requires a sufficiently large number of electrons with energies well above 20 eV.
Keywords: Low-energy electron collisions; Hollow cathode discharges; High-pressure plasmas; Excimers; Energy-transfer processes

Yi-Shiung Yeh, Wei-Shen Lai, Chung-Jaye Cheng,
Applying lightweight directory access protocol service on session certification authority,
Computer Networks,
Volume 38, Issue 5,
2002,
Pages 675-692,
ISSN 1389-1286,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1389-1286(01)00282-1.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1389128601002821)
Abstract: Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) service is a new technology being applied on the Internet. On large-scale network systems using Transmission control protocol (TCP)/Internet protocol (IP), there is no standard suggested for single directory––certainly without one to be routinely used on the scale of intranets. LDAP service has many great features, such as providing quick and advanced search, quick response and hierarchy view of data. It also can be utilized to many different applications. Certification Authority (CA) is a trusted system, and it plays an important role just like a notary bridging between end-entities and helps end-entities to establish a secure environment. If someone wants to trade or communicate with others, he or she needs the certificate issued by the CA to help him or her get the trust from others. When a number of end-entities need this service, the load of CA may become huge. Using distributed CAs may sound like a good idea, but it costs too much. In this paper, we have designed a Session CA using a directory system to share its load without the necessity to maintain the Certificate Revocation List (CRL) because the lifetime of the attribute certificate is very short. With these great features of LDAP service mentioned above, it becomes desirable that we can apply them to design a new CA system. By using LDAP service, we can reduce the load of certification significantly between CA and end-entity. In addition, this new technology can reduce the maintenance work of administration and improve the efficiency of our new proposed CA. Furthermore, combining with Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) and attribute certificate, the security of our system is greatly improved.
Keywords: Lightweight directory access protocol; Certification authority; Certificate revocation list; Role-based access control; Attribute certificate

Hwang Jing-Jang,
A conventional approach to secret balloting in computer networks,
Computers & Security,
Volume 15, Issue 3,
1996,
Pages 249-262,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4048(96)00006-5.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0167404896000065)
Abstract: Cryptography has been applied to ballot voting in computer networks. Several proposals satisfy the objectives of privacy protection and sound security management. Social acceptance is another challenge to meet if this application is to be moved from theory to practice. In this paper cryptographic instruments are inserted into the conventional secret-voting procedure: preparing, distributing, casting, accumulating, and tabulating ballot papers. The conventional approach has a better chance of gaining social acceptance due to adequate social controls. Moreover, the scheme removes the assumption of existent anonymous-communication channels necessary for implementing several previous proposals, while using cryptographic instruments which are intelligible to usual voters and officials.
Keywords: electronic voting protocol; group decision support systems; social acceptance; cryptography; ballot's confidentiality; digital signature; computer networks

Muel Kaptein,
Integrity management,
European Management Journal,
Volume 17, Issue 6,
1999,
Pages 625-634,
ISSN 0263-2373,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0263-2373(99)00053-5.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0263237399000535)
Abstract: Integrity management is concerned with systematically and completely reviewing, analyzing and developing or safeguarding the ability of organizations to combat breaches of integrity. Breaches of integrity occur where conflicting interests are incorrectly weighed against each other, so that the actor infringes the legitimate interests of the company that employs him, or of individuals and parties inside or outside the company. These breaches of integrity cause enormous damage to the company itself, the employees and the external stakeholders. Breaches of integrity undermine the competitive advantage of the companies concerned. It is the task of the company's management to find a balance between the conflicting interests employees face and to ensure that the balance is institutionalized. This article presents a conceptual framework for describing the integrity of organizations and provides a basis for developing specific activities.

Bob Schulhof,
The ABC's of computer embezzlement,
American Journal of Orthodontics and Dentofacial Orthopedics,
Volume 110, Issue 1,
1996,
Pages 112-113,
ISSN 0889-5406,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0889-5406(96)70098-7.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0889540696700987)

G. Pernul, A.M. Tjoa,
Security Policies for Databases,
IFAC Proceedings Volumes,
Volume 25, Issue 30,
1992,
Pages 259-265,
ISSN 1474-6670,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1474-6670(17)49440-7.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1474667017494407)
Abstract: This paper discusses advantages and disadvantages of security policies for databases. While database security will be defined by using a broader perspective main attention is given to access control models preventing a database from unauthorized disclosure or modification of information. In addition to Discretionary and Mandatory Security which are identified as requirements for the higher security classes of evaluation criterias, Adapted Mandatory Security, the Clark and Wilson Model and the Personal Knowledge Approach will be discussed.
Keywords: Database management systems; Computer security; Information storage systems; Modeling; Models

Antonio Davila, Mahendra Gupta, Richard Palmer,
Moving Procurement Systems to the Internet:: the Adoption and Use of E-Procurement Technology Models,
European Management Journal,
Volume 21, Issue 1,
2003,
Pages 11-23,
ISSN 0263-2373,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0263-2373(02)00155-X.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S026323730200155X)
Abstract: This paper reports the results of a research project addressing the current state of e-procurement technologies. The results indicate that the final equilibrium may include several technologies, each one serving a different segment of the market. This multiplicity of solutions is likely to further delay the transition of the industry to its growth stage. Companies are approaching e-procurement technologies with very different strategies. We identify two main types of companies. The first type is moving aggressively to adopt e-procurement technologies, frequently experimenting with various solutions. The second type adopts a more conservative strategy by selectively experimenting, typically with one technology. This latter group relies on these limited experiences to provide the capabilities to move quickly into the technology as a dominant design emerges. The results suggest that e-procurement technologies will become an important part of supply chain management and that the rate of adoption will accelerate as aggressive adopters share their experiences.
Keywords: Innovation; Supply chain; Procurement; E-Procurement; Technology; E-commerce

Teresa F. Lunt,
Security in database systems: A research perspective,
Computers & Security,
Volume 11, Issue 1,
1992,
Pages 41-56,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4048(92)90220-L.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/016740489290220L)
Abstract: Database security has been the subject of active research for the past several years. In the last five years, rapid progress has been made in defining what security means for such systems and in developing laboratory prototypes and even products that meet those definitions. However, much more work remains to be done in certain key research areas. This paper provides an overview of the database security issues for both mandatory and discretionary security and describes areas of ongoing research.
Keywords: Database security; Computer security; Multilevel security; Discretionary security; Polyinstantiation; TCB subsets

A. Neal Geller,
Rule out fraud and theft: Controlling your food-service operation,
The Cornell Hotel and Restaurant Administration Quarterly,
Volume 32, Issue 4,
1991,
Pages 55-65,
ISSN 0010-8804,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0010-8804(91)90100-6.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0010880491901006)
Abstract: Effective control mechanisms discourage theft and help improve your bottom line. Such procedures are always important, but in the current competitive environment, they can make the difference between survival and bankruptcy

E.E.O. Roos Lindgreen, I.S. Herschberg,
On the validity of the Bell-La Padula model,
Computers & Security,
Volume 13, Issue 4,
1994,
Pages 317-333,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4048(94)90023-X.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/016740489490023X)
Abstract: The well-known Bell-LaPadula model for multilevel-secure computer systems is scrutinized systematically and semi-formally. The validity of the model is discussed, both in its original context and in present-day applications. Even allowing for the model's limited scope, we find that it is based on indefinite, incomplete and disputable concepts, yielding systems that are cumbersome at best and insecure at worst. Finally, we discuss whether the Bell-LaPadula model is a suitable basis for its current application.
Keywords: Securance; Secureness; Bell-LaPadula model; Model validation; Obsolescence/Erosion; Paradigm shifting; Open systems

Charles Cresson Wood, William W. Banks,
Human error: an overlooked but significant information security problem,
Computers & Security,
Volume 12, Issue 1,
1993,
Pages 51-60,
ISSN 0167-4048,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4048(93)90012-T.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/016740489390012T)
Abstract: Human error continues to be a major computer security issue, although many contemporary information security practitioners appear to have forgotten about it. This paper discusses why the practitioner should reestablish human error as a high priority issue worthy of significant and continuous attention. Statistics reflecting loss experience are presented to recontextualize human error as a serious threat. The authors present cases of human error to underscore its importance. These cases are also used to draw attention to several distinctions about human error which can be used to initiate analytic work so that human error can be mitigated and prevented. The authors suggest that standard techniques for dealing with errors be brought into the normal practice of information security. These techniques include probabilistic risk assessment, human reliability assessment, and task profile analyses. Human errors– whether they are found in systems design, programming, operation, or other computer-related activities–are a serious threat to the viability of computer-based systems, and thereby to the industrialized world at large.
Keywords: Errors and omissions; Risk assessment; Risk analysis; Statistical analysis; System design; Ergonomics; Man/machine interface; Information security responsibility

Gerald Kovacich,
Introduction to computer fraud — Part 1,
Computer Fraud & Security,
Volume 1999, Issue 7,
1999,
Pages 12-17,
ISSN 1361-3723,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-3723(99)80042-6.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361372399800426)
Abstract: We sometimes get so involved in the details and technicalities of a topic that we often make it more complicated than it is. Computer fraud is just such a topic. So, every once in a while, we should go back to the basics, the baseline. By doing so, it is hoped that this will help ensure that our anti-fraud programs are focused on the right targets and have the right objectives. To successfully deal with computer fraud, one must understand our information age, global business environment, what is meant by computer fraud, who and what are the threats, and how to mitigate those threats. That is the purpose of this article.

Larry A. Deppe, Emory O. Sonderegger, James D. Stice, D.Cecil Clark, G.Fred Streuling,
Emerging competencies for the practice of accountancy,
Journal of Accounting Education,
Volume 9, Issue 2,
1991,
Pages 257-290,
ISSN 0748-5751,
https://doi.org/10.1016/0748-5751(91)90005-C.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/074857519190005C)

Sangjae Lee, Ingoo Han,
The impact of organizational contexts on EDI controls,
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems,
Volume 1, Issue 3,
2000,
Pages 153-177,
ISSN 1467-0895,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1467-0895(00)00008-7.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1467089500000087)
Abstract: The growing popularity of electronic data interchange (EDI) in business operations has led to a growing recognition of the need to implement proper control procedures. The requirements for control systems vary according to organizational context. A research model proposes that the organization, technological, and task characteristics as well as partner attributes affect formal, informal, and automated controls, each of which can be categorized as internal and external controls. Data were gathered from 110 companies that had adopted EDI. IS sophistication and task routineness were significantly associated with the use of formal and automated — both internal and external — controls. Decentralization and partner trust affected the use of internal and external informal controls. The results of this study could help EDI managers or auditors decide the necessary mode of controls for a certain organizational context. In addition, this study would be of interest to EDI practitioners in designing control systems.
Keywords: EDI; Organizational contexts; EDI controls
